Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative (RAII) - 1. What this program offers
From
Prairies Economic Development Canada
1. What this program offers
2. Who is eligible
3. Before you apply
4. How to apply
5. How projects are assessed
6. After you apply
1. What this program offers
Intake open
Applications will be accepted on a continuous basis until December 31, 2028, or until funding has been fully committed or otherwise announced here. Under Budget 2024, PrairiesCan received $33.8 million over 5 years to deliver the
Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative (RAII)
, beginning in 2024-25. Applicants are encouraged to submit expressions of interest as soon as possible for consideration under this initiative.
All projects must be completed by March 31, 2029.
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a powerful tool that can help businesses across Canada compete and grow in a global economy. This rapidly evolving technology has the potential to improve how businesses operate, increase productivity and bring benefits to Canadians. As countries around the world race to develop and use AI, Canada is already a leader in this space.
To stay at the forefront of this technology, the Government of Canada announced $200 million for AI-powered businesses. This funding, delivered by Canada’s regional development agencies (RDAs) is available in all regions to help bring new AI technologies to market and speed-up AI adoption in critical sectors such as agriculture, clean technology, healthcare and manufacturing.
The
RAII
is part of Canada’s budget 2024 commitment to secure Canada’s AI advantage. RAII advances
PrairiesCan’s strategic priorities
.
Program objective
The
RAII
will help marketplace adoption, supporting the responsible development and use of AI, in two key areas:
AI productization and commercialization
will help AI SMEs in the start-up and scale-up phases to turn their ideas into real world solutions, with financing aimed at providing support to secure growth capital, hire the right people, manage data, and navigate the AI marketplace.
Adoption of AI
across
priority sectors
. This will help Canadian businesses enhance productivity, growth, and competitiveness. Support will focus on helping SMEs to integrating AI into business operations, implement AI strategies and find workers with the right skills.
Available assistance
PrairiesCan contributions must range between $250,000 to $5 million per project over a maximum of 3 years.
Eligible businesses can receive interest-free repayable funding for up to 50% of eligible costs.
Eligible not-for-profit organizations can receive non-repayable funding for up to 90% of eligible costs. Preference will however be given to projects that leverage support from other funding sources. Eligible not-for-profit organizations proposing to undertake commercial projects will normally receive repayable funding.
Government funding (from all three levels of governments) is limited to up to 50% eligible capital costs and 75% of other eligible costs for businesses or commercial projects.
Organizations are limited to one RAII project approval per calendar year.
Document navigation
Next
: 2. Who is eligible
Guides and help
Help guide for the Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative (RAII) expression of interest form
Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative (RAII) program applicant guide
Contact us
For additional RAII information, contact us directly at one of our
regional offices
by calling
1-888-338-9378.
Related program
RAII is part of the national
Regional Economic Growth through Innovation
program.
Page details
Date modified:
2024-11-27