Home
Technology Leadership
Technology Leadership
Turning an idea into a project
The global demand for protein is growing and changing, creating an increasing need for healthy, sustainable options. With Canada’s long track record of high-quality crops and reputation for safe food practices, we’re in a prime position to provide the world with a steady supply of innovative plant-based products. Based on current predictions, it’s anticipated this could lead to a $25 billion global market share for Canada.
Achieving this potential requires a collaborative approach. Protein Industries Canada, under our newly allotted $150 million funding from the Government of Canada, is helping foster this collaboration through our second round of technology programs to develop new ingredients, put new products on grocery store shelves and strengthen Canada’s plant-based ecosystem.
Projects may be either solicited or unsolicited. There may be instances when Protein Industries Canada issues a specific call for projects to fill an identified gap; however, companies across the country are encouraged to put forth projects that are aligned with and contribute to the objectives of advancing Canada’s plant-based food and ingredients ecosystem.
What’s new
While many of the base elements that make up Protein Industries Canada’s projects have stayed the same—such as the need for collaboration, a co-investment model, a focus on plant protein and a full value chain approach—there are also a number of important changes potential project partners should be aware of.
We’ve moved away from our Create, Grow, Make and Sell pillars to focus instead on
Genetics, Crops, Ingredients and Products,
as outlined in the Priority Areas section below.
Protein Industries Canada’s total co-investment into a project has been lowered from 50 per cent of a project’s costs to
45 per cent
.
A greater emphasis will be placed on a project’s milestones in the areas of
sustainability
and
economic reconciliation
.
A greater focus will be placed on projects that aim to reach product
commercialization
within their allotted timeframe.
Priority areas
As we move into our second round of funding, our technology projects will have a continued focus on Canada’s plant-based value chain. However, we will be placing an increased emphasis on ingredient processing, as well as commercialization at every point in the value chain. Our four areas of focus for technology projects are as follows:
Genetics
Germplasm development with an aim to improve processing efficiency, quality, sensory characteristics and the development of novel ingredients.
Crops
Technologies to measure and improve on-farm sustainability and information flow along the value chain.
Ingredients
The development, scaling and optimization of plant-based ingredients.
Products
The conversion of Canadian-made ingredients and co-products into consumption-ready goods.
Investing in sustainable technology
Consortiums of three or more companies can take part in Protein Industries Canada’s technology program. Projects under this program must have a clear connection to plant protein, while falling under one of the pillars outlined above. Additionally, technology projects are expected to show advancements in environmental sustainability and efforts toward
economic reconciliation
.
The project application process is made up of two parts:
The Expression of Interest (EOI)
Full Project Proposal
Please read through the
Program Guide
before beginning the project process. This outlines the program structure and eligibility requirements. Additionally, our Data and IP Strategies provide additional context related to how partners' data and IP work may be collected, protected and commercialized throughout project work.
English
Technology Leadership Program Guide
pdf
Download
French
Guide du programme de leadership technologique
pdf
Download
Data Strategy | English
Protein Industries Canada's Data Strategy
pdf
Download
IP Strategy | English
Protein Industries Canada's IP Strategy
pdf
Download
Eligible Projects
Protein Industries Canada will co-invest in collaborative consortia that leverages strengths, addresses gaps, and incents innovation across the plant-based food, feed and ingredients value chain. All projects are expected to engage diverse and inclusive teams with meaningful participation of women, Indigenous Peoples and/or other under-represented groups.
Protein Industries Canada’s contribution, both in magnitude and in proportion, to an approved project will be determined by how, and the extent to which, project outcomes are aligned with our program areas and the Global Innovation Cluster objectives, and the potential for transformation. These program areas and objectives can be found in the
Program Guide
.
All projects start at the EOI stage, during which time the consortium may receive advice as to how a project can better meet eligibility criteria, or feedback on scope and scale of the project. All EOIs are assessed by a team of Protein Industries Canada staff. EOIs that meet eligibility requirements are assessed for fit with Protein Industries Canada’s Investment Thesis, Global Innovation Cluster prioirites, and against other program criteria. Selected projects move on to the Full Proposal stage. The project, its budget and its workplan are fine-tuned throughout this stage. Once complete, the project is presented to the Project Selection Committee, which is comprised of industry experts independent of Protein Industries Canada Board of Directors. The Project Selection Committee may determine whether the project receives approval, is declined or is tabled for more information.
Further information about project eligibility—including consortium details, administration fee information, initiative alignment and applicable sanctions—is available in the
Program Guide
.
The Project Selection Committee
The Project Selection Committee evaluates and makes the final decision regarding co-investment into a project. The committee may approve the project, decline the project, table the project for further information, or approve only a portion or specific aspect of the project.
Members of Protein Industries Canada’s Project Selection Committee have experience related to Protein Industries Canada’s Investment Thesis and expertise relevant to the technical areas for which Protein Industries Canada co-investments are available. Protein Industries Canada tasks the Project Selection Committee with reviewing Application Packages and selecting projects appropriate for co-investment.
Members of the Project Selection Committee are governed by a
Conflict of Interest Policy
. At no time prior to, during, or following a project evaluation, may a member of a consortium attempt to influence or have a conversation about their project with any member of the Project Selection Committee. Doing so may result in the project being disqualified. All members are expected to comply with the Code of Member Conduct and the
Project Selection Committee-Applicant Interaction Policy
.
Laurie Powers
Laurie is a seasoned financial executive with over 25 years of experience in the private sector as well as with Saskatchewan Crown Corporations. She has held senior financial positions in a variety of industries within the core areas of finance and investment management, most recently as CEO managing a farmland portfolio on behalf of the CPP Investment Board. She has over 15 years board experience, currently serving as the Audit Committee Chair of ISC, the AVAC Group, and the Saskatchewan Roughrider Foundation, as well as serves on the Audit & Investment Committees of Peace Hills Insurance. She holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the University of Saskatchewan and has her CPA, CA and ICD.D designations.
Mark Roe
Senior Operations Executive and Director with over 35 years of experience in the food industry/agribusiness, Mark has extensive experience in strategic/operational planning, project development, approval and execution. He has served on a number of industry boards. Since 2017, he has been providing strategic advice, operational management expertise and engineering support to the food industry and agribusiness organizations looking to grow and achieve operational excellence.
Dr. Bob Tyler
Bob has been engaged in teaching, research and extension related to crop quality and utilization and food processing and product development for more than 40 years, mainly with the College of Agriculture and Bioresources at the University of Saskatchewan, and in the early years at the National Research Council of Canada in Saskatoon.
Read more about Dr Bob Tyler
Alternate independent industry experts
Woody Galloway
Experienced commodity marketing and supply chain management professional who adds add-value to companies, organizations, and associations. Woody thrives on developing innovative solutions to business/industry challenges and is a strategic thinker with a passion for team building and success.
Experience includes Director of Oilseed Processing and Director of Supply Chain for Bunge Canada.
Woody has served on several industry boards including the Winnipeg Commodity Exchange, Canola Council of Canada, Canadian Oilseed Processors Association, Animal Nutrition Association of Canada, and the Freight Management Association of Canada.
Dr. Linda Malcolmson
Food Industry Consultant bringing 20 years of diverse industry experience and 30 plus years of research and development expertise. Former Director of Special Crops, Oilseeds and Pulses at the Canadian International Grains Institute and former professor in Foods and Nutrition at the University of Manitoba.
How to apply
We recently launched the
Strengthening the Canadian Supply Chain Program
. If your company is interested in applying, please submit the form below.
Subscribe to our newsletter
to be the first to know about any future calls for projects.
We are currently not accepting EOIs at this time. If you have questions about the Technology Leadership program, please submit an inquiry below.
Leave this field blank
Company Name
Name of Contact Person and Title
Phone Number
Email Address
Company Website
Brief Project Description
Send
Become a Member of Protein Industries Canada
By becoming a member of Protein Industries Canada, you will have the opportunity to be involved in collaborative projects that will transform Canada’s agriculture and food processing sectors. Together, we will build a shared competitive advantage for Canada.
Join & Connect