Energy Innovation Program – National Energy Systems Modelling Call
STATUS: Closed
The Energy Innovation Program (EIP) - National Energy Systems Modelling Call for Proposals (“the Call”) will fund projects that quantitatively model the role of innovative technologies in achieving emissions reductions and supporting Canada’s net-zero emissions targets.
On this page
Why is Canada investing in National Energy Systems Modelling?
Results
Previous Call
Contact us
Why is Canada investing in National Energy Systems Modelling?
Energy systems modelling is a critical element of informed Canadian energy and climate action. It provides a quantitative framework to explore the potential role and impacts of different energy technologies on Canada’s energy future. Models allow for experimentation with how individual and combinations of technologies could accelerate the transition to net-zero and impact the larger energy system. This could produce lowest-cost pathways to net zero. As a result, it is important to accurately reflect the complexity and interconnectedness of low-carbon technologies and systems in models. There have been considerable advances in energy modelling in Canada in recent years. However, continued investment and effort in growing the base of robust and transparent energy models are needed to keep up with the pace and direction of the energy system transformation.
Results
The Energy Innovation Program – National Energy Systems Modelling Call for Proposals received 34 eligible submissions, amounting to an overall request of $21.2M.
As the funded projects are announced, they will be posted on our
Current Investments
page.
Previous Call
In December 2023, Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) launched the first National Energy Systems Modelling Call for Proposals. It received 92 submissions, amounting to an overall request of $51.5 million. After a stringent review process, four projects have been selected to advance to a final due diligence phase, which will be followed by drafting and signing of contribution agreements. Selection does not represent a guarantee of funding. As these projects are announced, they will be posted on our
Current Investments
page.
Contact us
Questions about the Call? Contact NRCan at:
energyinnovation-innovationenergetique@nrcan-rncan.gc.ca
.During regular operations, NRCan will strive to respond within two business days.
Stay connected
Email the
Energy Innovation Program
Join our
email list
for our latest news and funding opportunities
Follow
NRCan on LinkedIn
Date modified:
2025-03-21