Business Development Program
The Business Development Program (BDP) helps entrepreneurs launch, modernize and grow their business in Atlantic Canada.
Follow:
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
LinkedIn
Instagram
Surrette Battery, Springhill, N.S.
ACOA Business Information Services
ACOA programs
Forms
Contact us
FAQ
Through the BDP, the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency (ACOA) funds new ideas so you can get them off the ground. We also help existing companies get to the next level. If you have a non-profit organization that fuels business growth, you can also access support.
Support for entrepreneurs
If you're looking to finance your next expansion or start a new business, we can help! Our repayable funding is interest-free and unsecured. You could get up to 50% of the capital you need to grow your business or launch a new one.
We also support business growth activities. You could get an interest-free contribution to cover up to 75% of the costs for:
staff training
efficiency studies
marketing/trade activities
productivity improvements
quality assurance
environmental management systems
Support for non-profits
ACOA helps non-profit organizations support Atlantic Canadian small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). We fund projects so businesses can grow, become more competitive and increase their productivity.
Your organization could receive support to help SMEs with:
business counselling and advice
training and specialized services
networking opportunities
research and development
technology transfer
How to apply
Contact your nearest ACOA office
to discuss your project and then complete and submit the
Application for financial assistance.
Contact us today!
Ready for your next move? If so, the
ACOA Business Information Services
can help you. We’ll connect you to the right people and programs to help you achieve your goals. Our service is personal, bilingual and free. Call us at 1-888-576-4444 and get started today!
Or contact us by email:
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Prince Edward Island
Newfoundland and Labrador
Outside Atlantic Canada
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Prince Edward Island
Newfoundland and Labrador
Outside Atlantic Canada
Hours of operation: Monday to Friday, 8 am to 5 pm (Atlantic time)
Grants and Contributions Awarded
Are you interested in businesses and organizations that received ACOA funding? Consult the
Open Government Portal
and search by keyword “BDP" or ”Business Development Program”.
Impact stories
After a lifetime of chronic skin issues caused by synthetic ingredients,
The Soap Company
founder and CEO Leigh McFarlane has created simple, gluten-free, nut-free products that are either unscented or scented with only essential oils.
In 2012, Nicola Mason and Adam Clawson incorporated
Red Rover Craft Cider
– and broke new ground in New Brunswick. Until they opened their company in Fredericton, there were no cider-makers in the province and no local cider on liquor store shelves.
For Sylvia MacVey, President and CEO of
G.E. Barbour
, located in Sussex, New Brunswick, there has never been a better time to be a woman entrepreneur.
Page details
Date modified:
2024-11-28