Inclusive Diversification and Economic Advancement in the North (IDEANorth)
On this page
About IDEANorth
Who should apply?
About IDEANorth
Inclusive Diversification and Economic Advancement in the North (IDEANorth) makes foundational investments in economic infrastructure, sector development and capacity building to help position  Northerners in the territories to take advantage of Canada's innovation economy.
IDEANorth builds on CanNor's previous Strategic Investments in Northern Economic Development (SINED) economic development programming to better align, advance, encourage and support broader economic opportunities, as well as the specific economic and business needs of each territory.
The IDEANorth program focuses on four priority areas: economic growth and sector development; business scale-up, productivity and innovation; small-scale economic infrastructure development; and foundational economic infrastructure.
IDEANorth helps enable Northerners to take advantage of northern economic opportunities to grow a strong, diverse, and sustainable economy in Canada's North. IDEANorth supports community economic growth through  investments in small-scale infrastructure to allow communities and businesses to extend services and by supporting the early stages of large-scale infrastructure projects.
IDEANorth is delivered directly through the Canadian Northern Economic Development Agency.
For more information on the IDEANorth program, please consult the
IDEANorth program guidelines
.
Who should  apply?
This program supports businesses and other public or private organizations with an emphasis on ensuring equitable access to funding to underrepresented groups such as Indigenous people, women and youth. Investments will help strengthen existing economic sectors and develop new economic sectors with the goal of enhancing and diversifying economic activity throughout the territories.
Priority will be given to recipients who can demonstrate proven capacity to deliver projects in the North and who can demonstrate interest/engagement in territorial economic development.
For more information on the IDEANorth program, please view the
Application Form
and the
IDEANorth program guidelines
.
To apply for funding under the IDEANorth program, please email
Operations@cannor.gc.ca
, or reach out to one of our
regional offices
.
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2022-03-02