Incentives for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Zero-Emission Vehicles
From:
Transport Canada
NOTICE TO DEALERSHIPS AND AUTHORIZED SELLERS:
As of May 9, 2024, there is a new mandatory version of the Consumer Consent Form please find it at this link:
iMHZEV Program organization consent form
.
Transportation is the second largest source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in Canada, accounting for a quarter of Canada's total GHG emissions. One way to reduce the amount of transportation-related GHG emissions is to put more zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs) on the road.
A ZEV is a vehicle that has the potential to produce no tailpipe emissions. They can still have a conventional internal combustion engine but must also be able to operate without using it.
We consider the following vehicles to be ZEVs:
battery-electric
plug-in hybrid electric
fuel cell electric
In order to encourage the adoption of medium- and heavy-duty ZEVs by Canadian businesses, the Government of Canada launched the Incentives for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Zero-Emission Vehicles (iMHZEV) Program in July 2022. The iMHZEV Program can provide incentives of up to $200,000. Many different makes and models of
eligible zero-emission vehicles
for purchase or lease (12 months or more) are available to eligible organizations. For more information on the iMHZEV Program, please consult the « iMHZEV Program - Program overview » section below.
Program overview
This page contains information for Canadian organizations, businesses, dealerships, and automakers about how to make a purchase or lease under the iMHZEV Program.
Questions and answers
If you are a dealership/authorized seller representative or if your organization is thinking about purchasing or leasing a medium- and heavy-duty ZEV that qualifies for the iMHZEV Program, this page contains answers to the most frequently asked questions about the Program.
Program resources for dealerships
This page contains program resources for dealerships/authorized sellers and their representatives. There are links to the iMHZEV Program’s mandatory forms and the ZEV application for dealership enrolment and submitting incentive requests.
Eligible vehicles
You can find out which medium- and heavy-duty ZEVs are eligible under the iMHZEV Program here.
iMHZEV Program statistics
On the iMHZEV Program statistics page, you can access medium- and heavy-duty ZEV incentives data collected to date. Data is updated on a monthly basis.
Zero-emission vehicle charging stations
Canada already has thousands of ZEV charging and re-fuelling stations and the number of new locations continues to grow. Find out how Natural Resources Canada’s Zero-Emission Vehicle Infrastructure Program is helping to make your ZEV journey hassle-free.
Contact us
If you have any questions, please contact us by email at
IMHZEVProgram-ProgrammeIVMLZE@tc.gc.ca
or our toll-free number at 1-800-O-Canada for general inquiries.
Report a problem with this page
Date modified:
2024-07-05