Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative in British Columbia
At a glance
Status
The program intake for both for-profit and non-profit applicants is now closed. Expressions of interest from not-for-profit organizations received after February 14, 2025 may not be assessed.
Funding per recipient
Businesses:
$500,000 to $3M per project
Not-for-profit organizations:
$500,000 to $5M per project
Type of funding
Businesses:
repayable contributions
Not-for-profit organizations:
non-repayable contributions
Eligible organizations
Incorporated businesses and not-for-profit organizations
Overview
1. Funding overview
2. Who can apply
3. How to apply
4. After you apply
Contact us
Overview
The Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative funds:
businesses that are commercializing or adopting artificial intelligence (AI) solutions in B.C.
not-for-profit organizations that are supporting AI commercialization or adoption and ecosystem development in B.C.
Intake will focus on the following:
Businesses with projects to support AI commercialization
Not-for-profit organizations with projects that help develop the AI ecosystem in B.C., particularly those that bring AI commercialization activities together with AI adoption activities
Note that projects to support businesses that are adopting existing AI technologies may be considered on an exceptional basis.
Program objectives
The Initiative aims to support projects that:
use AI to improve human health, environmental health, and/or economic resilience and productivity across various sectors
, including those that support other sectors such as infrastructure, telecommunications and transportation
commercialize AI technology
by helping AI companies, including start-ups, bring new technologies to market
adopt AI technology
by accelerating AI use in key sectors
advance the AI ecosystem in B.C.
by supporting local organizations that use AI
generate strong economic results
by growing revenue and creating high-quality jobs
The
strongest applications
will be ones that demonstrate:
significant and concrete benefits
strong performance on the assessment criteria
high capacity
Applicants must clearly show how they will achieve these objectives. Funding recipients will be required to report on their progress.
Related links
Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative will support AI innovation and adoption in British Columbia
(PacifiCan news release)
Securing Canada’s AI Advantage
: Budget 2024 included $2.4 billion in federal supports for AI
Document navigation
Next
1. Funding overview
Back to top
On social media
X:
YouTube:
LinkedIn:
Page details
Date modified:
2025-03-05