Sign in
Live Updates Trump presidency
Trending Missing plane in Alaska
Winter storms
Super Bowl commercials
Nitrogen gas execution
Cruise ship outbreak
TJ Maxx and tariffs
Questions swirl over the team behind DOGE's 'Second American Revolution'
CNN INVESTIGATES
Kenny Holston/The New York Times/Pool/Reuters
While the rigor of DOGE’s hiring process remains unclear, here’s what we know about the people on Musk’s team
Trump and Musk say they’re just getting started
Privacy is the key issue for Musk, Trump and DOGE
Trump energy secretary let 23-year-old DOGE rep access IT systems over objections from general counsel
•
LIVE UPDATES
Trump is meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba at the White House today
1:36
Expert identifies ‘doomsday scenario’ with Trump that attorneys are worried about
1:32
FBI agent writes anonymous letter warning Americans
Indian Youth Congress via X
‘Treated like criminals’: Shackling of Indians aboard 40-hour migrant flight sparks new outrage against Trump
White House pressures ICE to pick up pace of arrests, sources say
Scott Olson/Getty Images
Americans, including Republicans, now fear higher inflation this year
Breaking News Trump reinstates tariff loophole for certain cheap shipments — for now
Jobs report shows hiring slowdown with companies acting like ‘they’re in a recession’
A scene from 'Home Alone' is making people ask, 'Is pizza inflation-proof?' 3:05
Watch the latest CNN Headlines
Dan Kitwood/Getty Images
The second-largest gold storage in the world suddenly has long lines to withdraw bars
CNN Exclusive K-pop act NewJeans unveils new identity — and a new name
Zoe Saldaña taking ‘time to process’ ‘Emilia Pérez’ costar Karla Sofía Gascón’s comments
River suddenly turns red, sparking environmental concerns 0:32
MORE TOP STORIES
Caleb Jones/AP
Not 1. Not 2. Not 3. Not 4. 5 winter storms could deliver more snow than the last two winters combined
Breaking News Hamas to release three Israeli men Saturday in latest round of exchanges under ceasefire deal
Crews searching open waters in Alaska for flight that went missing with 10 on board
As Trump pushes for ceasefire talks, Ukraine sees Kursk as a potential bargaining chip
Three NATO members still rely on Russia to manage their electricity grid. They’re about to pull the plug
AOC ally reveals his plan to take on Pelosi 5:57
How to recognize signs of a stroke with the acronym BE FAST
Only a dozen female inmates survived this prison fire. CNN correspondent explains what happened 1:18
USAID
Roberto Schmidt/AFP/Getty Images
Musk’s plan to send USAID through ‘the woodchipper’ will backfire, experts say
USAID expected to retain fewer than 300 employees as Trump aims to shutter humanitarian agency
Analysis Why the courts may be the last constraint on Trump but may not contain his power grabs
TARIFFS
ANALYSIS FOR SUBSCRIBERS
Rebecca Noble/Bloomberg/Getty Images
Tariffs on Mexico aren’t coming for weeks, but companies at the border are taking action now
Tariffs will hurt most stores — but not TJ Maxx
CNN PODCASTS
How to hack your brain’s reward system
Elon Musk’s next experiment: The U.S. Government
Do young people need smartphones?
SUPER BOWL
FOR SUBSCRIBERS
Austin Steele/CNN
Attack fallout lingers as French Quarter workers welcome Super Bowl fans
On the verge of an unprecedented career, Patrick Mahomes’ success has earned him a new label: villain
This year’s Super Bowl ads are all about celebrity cameos and humor
Jalen Hurts has faced enough twists to make anyone get off the football roller coaster — but he isn’t just anyone
CHECK THESE OUT
Debra Messing says she will never stop fighting against antisemitism: ‘I don’t think I’ve ever felt as proud of being a Jew’
LeBron James joins Michael Jordan in history books as Lakers down Warriors to continue winning run
0:36
Watch horseback officers chase suspect on busy streets
Casu marzu: The world’s ‘most dangerous’ cheese
FOR SUBSCRIBERS
Tim and Patty Korber/George and Debbie Gilbert/Scott and Cheree Behringer
They met on vacation and became best friends. Then they recreated their favorite photo 30 years later
K9s, snipers and BearCats: How New Orleans is prepping to keep the Super Bowl safe
China is building a giant laser facility to master near-limitless clean energy, satellite images appear to show
CNN Underscored
BEST-IN-CLASS
Tobey Grumet Segal/CNN Underscored
Presidents Day sales have officially landed. These are the ones that are actually worth it
Yes, you should have an emergency car kit in your vehicle. These are the best ones
The best products on sale this weekend that are truly discounted
36 last-minute Valentine's Day gifts that won't feel like an afterthought
9 product releases that we’re eager to get our hands on
EXPERT-BACKED GUIDES
Michelle Rae Uy/CNN Underscored
The 58 best products we tried and loved in January
We tested the best winter gloves and found 2 that will actually keep your hands warm
A bunch of Gap's bestselling jeans are 50% off right now
Cotopaxi makes the best outdoor gear. Grab our favorites for 50% off today
Backcountry’s Semi-Annual Sale just took up to 50% off winter jackets, gear and more
BUSINESS
David Paul Morris/Bloomberg/Getty Images
Buying a new phone? Why you shouldn’t panic about tariff price hikes
Federal workers, CNN wants to hear from you
Latest in Markets
DOW 44,481.74 0.59%
S&P 500 6,053.88 0.49%
NASDAQ 19,623.57 0.85%
ENTERTAINMENT
Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images
Laverne Cox says the country is ‘worried about the wrong 1%’
Antonio Banderas knows who the real star is in his Super Bowl spot
Prince documentary will no longer be released by Netflix
Liam Payne’s girlfriend Kate Cassidy opens up about their relationship and his final days
SPACE AND SCIENCE
YouTube/SpaceX
Astronomers briefly thought Elon Musk's car was an asteroid. Here's why that points to a broader problem
Scientists make ‘rare advance’ in tackling the oldest unsolved problem in physics
‘Disgust’ among first words decoded in 2,000-year-old charred scroll
Two Grand Canyon-size valleys on the far side of the moon formed within 10 minutes, scientists say
TRAVEL
Boom Supersonic
Supersonic jets are making a comeback. Here’s what that means for air passengers
How this American moved to Italy and became the country’s ‘first woman rabbi’
CDC reports gastrointestinal illness outbreak on Radiance of the Seas cruise ship
Plans to move SS United States from Philly to Gulf of Mexico are back on hold – again
‘Am I now a walking target?’: The Canadians boycotting travel to the United States because of Trump
STYLE
Pierre David/SATISFY
Catch me if you can: Running gets fashionable
Anna Wintour takes off her iconic sunglasses for meeting with King Charles
Meet the designer redefining lace for the 21st century
In a world of naked dresses, did one take it too far?
He’s the first Black American to compose a full opera. It’s finally being staged after 138 years
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
MoMo Productions/Digital Vision/Getty Images
Why ‘cardiac clearance’ could save your life
Does my child have an anxiety disorder? Here are the signs parents should look out for
Just deal with it in the morning. Your mental health will be better then, study suggests
Parents’ phone habits increase exposure of mature content for children, new study finds
MORE POLITICS
Alex Wong/Getty Images
Judge pauses Trump’s ‘buyout’ offer to federal workers
FBI gives DOJ names of employees who worked on Jan. 6 cases
EPA places more than 160 environmental justice employees on paid leave
What to know about Trump’s birthright citizenship order, in charts and maps
Trans youth care, Head Start programs affected by Trump’s early actions
US
Angela Weiss/AFP/Getty Images
New York temporarily shuts down live bird markets in several counties after bird flu detected in poultry
Mother and daughter killed in suspected tornado in a small East Tennessee community
California utility company says its equipment may have sparked a Los Angeles-area wildfire
Father in car was among 7 killed in Philadelphia medevac crash. His 9-year-old son is fighting for his life
WORLD
India McIntosh/GoFundMe
Two tourists died in Sri Lanka after hostel fumigated for bedbugs, police say
What is the ICC and why has Trump sanctioned it?
Two killed as small plane crashes into bus on busy road in Brazilian city of São Paulo
Trump says China ‘operates’ the Panama Canal. How deep are Beijing’s ties to the key waterway?
CNN PODCASTS
Shutterstock
How to hack your brain’s reward system
The ‘long road ahead’ for Republicans
Elon Musk’s next experiment: The U.S. Government
Do young people need smartphones?
What we know (and don’t) about Musk’s DC takeover
SPORTS
Bleacher Report
Expert Super Bowl LIX predictions
Video: Brother surprises NFL legend with HOF news
NFL players eligible for the 2026 Hall of Fame
Voters were torn on Eli Manning HOF snub
NBA power rankings: Who rose after trade deadline?
Video
0:36
Watch horseback officers chase suspect on busy streets
0:34
Frozen iguana's day goes from bad to worse after tumbling from tree
0:46
These athletes are dragon boat racing – but not on water
0:27
25 baby pandas make first public appearance
Food and Home
Food Network
5 irresistible broccoli casserole recipes that’ll make you want to eat your veggies
Westend61/Getty Images
Is there really a difference between soup and stew?
Emily Fazio / HGTV
How to clean baking sheets
Paid Content
More from CNN
TRUMP RETURNS TO OFFICE
Photo illustration by Amy O'Kruk/CNN/Getty Images
Trump has issued dozens of executive actions. Read what they are
Tracking Trump’s picks for his Cabinet and administration
They lived through Musk’s Twitter takeover. Now, they have advice for federal employees
FOOTBALL
Mark J. Rebilas/USA Today Sports/Reuters
Josh Allen wins his first NFL MVP award, beating out Lamar Jackson in one of the most intense races ever
Google’s AI-generated Super Bowl cheese ad has some holes
A historic three-peat is on the line for Andy Reid and the Chiefs. Standing in the way is his former team
Photos
GALLERY
Sonja Flemming/CBS
The best photos from the 2025 Grammy Awards
GALLERY
Petty Officer 1st Class Brandon Giles/US Coast Guard/Getty Images
In pictures: Passenger plane collides with Army helicopter
GALLERY
John Shearer/Getty Images
The week in 40 photos
Gary He/McAtlas
A photographer visited McDonald’s in more than 55 countries. Here’s what he found
Paid Partner Content
In case you missed it
CNN
It was the world’s fastest ocean liner. Now it’s headed to the bottom of the Atlantic
Lindsey Vonn’s Alpine World Ski Championships return ends early
LG is sending free stickers to 500,000 customers who bought its recalled stove that caused 28 house fires
100,000 eggs were stolen from a trailer in Pennsylvania, police say
Plagued by quakes, resident details difficulty evacuating Santorini
Democrats mobilize to take on Musk
CIA sends White House unclassified email with names of new hires
Trump revokes former defense secretary’s security
Baseball star Ohtani’s ex-interpreter is sentenced in betting case
Harrison Ford is ‘still happy’ he made ‘Indiana Jones 5’ despite underwhelming box office
Frenzy in Tokyo for new Nvidia gaming chips
Sign in
Live TV
Listen
Watch
US
World
Politics
Business
Markets
Health
Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
Science
Climate
Weather
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Watch
Listen
CNN Underscored
Games
About CNN
FOLLOW CNN
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Settings
Ad Choices
Accessibility & CC
About
Subscribe
Newsletters
Transcripts
Help Center
© 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.