Northern REACHE Program
Supporting northern and Indigenous communities in their transition to renewable, sustainable and affordable sources of energy. Northern REACHE is a part of
Wah-ila-toos
, a new way to improve community access to federal clean energy programming.
New funding available
In April 2022, the Government of Canada announced $300 million in funding to support communities launching clean energy projects such as wind, solar, geothermal, hydro and biomass along with a new, streamlined service model for communities seeking to access resources and clean energy funding. This initiative,
newly gifted the name Wah-ila-toos in a traditional naming ceremony
, is a partnership between Natural Resources Canada (NRCan), Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs Canada (CIRNAC) and Indigenous Services Canada (ISC), with support from Infrastructure Canada, and Environment and Climate Change Canada.
To learn more about the types of projects we're funding, who can apply and how we're working, visit
Wah-ila-toos: Funding opportunities
.
On this page
About the program
Funding for hydroelectricity feasibility and planning
Changing how we work to support community priorities
Previously selected projects
Background
Related links
About the program
The Northern Responsible Energy Approach for Community Heat and Electricity program, also called the Northern REACHE program, funds renewable energy and energy efficiency projects, and related capacity building and planning in:
Yukon
Northwest Territories
Nunavut
Nunavik
Nunatsiavut
The program objective is to reduce Northern communities' reliance on diesel for heating and electricity by increasing the use of local renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. This will result in environmental, social and economic benefits to support developing healthier, more sustainable Northern communities.
Investing in clean energy solutions in Indigenous communities is an important link to energy security, reconciliation and self-determination for Indigenous peoples.
Funding for hydroelectricity feasibility and planning
Announced in Budget 2021, Northern REACHE will provide $40.4 million, until 2024, to support the feasibility and planning stages of hydroelectricity and grid interconnection projects in the North.
You can contact us at
aadnc.northernreache.aandc@canada.ca
for more information or to request an application guide.
There is no deadline to apply. We review applications on an ongoing basis.
Changing how we work to support community priorities
Wah-ila-toos is committed to improving community access to federal clean energy funding and resources. To make funding more accessible for Indigenous and remote communities, multiple departments are changing the way we work. Funding is available through a new single-window initiative,
Clean energy in Indigenous, rural and remote communities
.
What does this mean for applicants?
Common application that you can submit to any Wah-ila-toos program, including Northern REACHE and Natural Resources Canada's Clean Energy for Rural and Remote Communities Program (CERRC)
Simplified project reporting
More flexible terms and conditions
Indigenous Council
to guide our work
On-going conversations and information sessions to improve program delivery and work towards Indigenous climate leadership
Previously funded projects
Since 2016, Northern REACHE has funded 140 projects and invested over $29 million in capacity building, renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. Learn more about what type of projects Northern REACHE has funded:
Northern REACHE, selected projects 2019 to 2020
Northern REACHE, selected projects 2018 to 2019
Background
Budget 2017 announced, starting in 2018 to 2019:
$53.5 million over 10 years to implement renewable energy projects in off-grid Indigenous and Northern communities that rely on diesel and other fossil fuels to generate heat and power.
In 2020, Canada's Strengthened Climate Plan announced, starting in 2021 to 2022:
$300 million over 5 years to advance the government's commitment to ensure rural, remote and Indigenous communities that currently rely on diesel have the opportunity to be powered by clean, reliable energy by 2030.
Budget 2021 announced, starting in 2021 to 2022:
$40.4 million over 3 years to support the feasibility and planning stages of hydroelectricity and grid interconnection projects in the North.
Related links
Clean energy in Indigenous, rural and remote communities
Climate Change Preparedness in the North Program
First Nation Adapt Program
Indigenous Community-Based Climate Monitoring Program
List of federal Indigenous climate funding programs
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2023-12-06