Greening Government Fund
The Greening Government Fund was established as part of the Government of Canada’s response to climate change. This initiative:
provides project funding to federal government departments and agencies to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in their operations
promotes and shares innovative approaches to reducing GHGs
The fund targets projects that:
are anticipated to reduce GHG emissions in federal operations
test or implement innovative approaches
can be reproduced within or across departments
pursue solutions in areas where GHGs are difficult to reduce
Project funding comes from departments and agencies that generate more than 1 kilotonne of GHGs per year from air travel and from departments that are below this threshold and contribute voluntarily. Only departments and agencies that contribute to the fund are eligible to access it.
As of January 2024, the Greening Government Fund has approved more than $55 million in funding for projects that reduce GHGs in government operations.
Projects
Filtering Options
Filtering options
Use the filters below to change the focus of your results.
Department
              All departments
              Agriculture and Agri-food Canada
              Canada Revenue Agency
              Canadian Space Agency
              Canadian Coast Guard
              Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs Canada
              Defence Research and Development Canada
              Department of National Defence
              Environment and Climate Change Canada
              Fisheries and Oceans Canada
              Global Affairs Canada
              Health Canada
              Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada
              National Research Council Canada
              Natural Resources Canada
              Parks Canada Agency
              Public Services and Procurement Canada
              Royal Canadian Mounted Police
              Shared Services Canada
              Transport Canada
              Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat
             Category
              All categories
              Real Property
              Fleet
              Other
              Procurement
             Completion date
              All years
              2026
              2025
              2024
              2023
              2022
              2021
              2020
             Filter
Clear
Filter items
Showing 1 to 10 of 91 entriesShow
10
25
50
100
entries
Project Title
Description
Department
Funding
Category
Completion Date
Buyers for Climate Action (BCA) Establish a coalition of large green buyers to accelerate green procurement and supplier disclosure in areas such as net-zero and climate resilient buildings, low carbon construction materials, zero emission fleets, and green information and communications technology (ICT). The Greening Government Fund contribution supports the secretariat and projects such as the development of model specifications. Members represent large governments across Canada that have net-zero targets and are actively greening their procurement. Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat $500,000 / year Procurement Ongoing
National Safety and Security Fleet Decarbonization Project Accelerate the decarbonization of National Safety and Security Fleet (NSSF) and other federal air and marine operations by conducting future pathways analysis, technical studies, market analysis, industry engagement, and by developing requirements for low-carbon fuel procurements and operations. Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat $500,000 / year Fleet Ongoing
Enabling Continuous Operational Energy & GHG Optimization for Federal Facilities Build automated greenhouse gas (GHG) management capabilities into the RETScreen Clean Energy Management Software (RETScreen Expert). The improved daily, hourly, and 15-minute data analytics capabilities will enable continuous operational energy and GHG optimization for federal facilities. Natural Resources Canada $800,000 Real Property 2027
Plastic Circular Economy for Floating Aids to Navigation Conduct a pilot project to manufacture new plastic buoys using the polyethylene recovered from existing waste buoy stockpiles. The pilot aims to demonstrate the feasibility of circular approaches and will reduce the embodied carbon of the Canadian Coast Guard’s plastic aids to navigation. Fisheries and Oceans Canada $750,000 Procurement 2027
Green Heat Microgrid as a Propane Replacement Replace the propane heating system in a Canadian Forces Base Halifax Building with CO2-based heat pumps and a commercial-scale electrothermal storage (ETS) system. The new system will draw power from a roof-mounted solar array and utilize a weather-driven predictive micro-grid controller to determine when to charge the storage system and draw electricity from the grid. Department of National Defense $730,000 Real Property 2027
Low Embodied Carbon Materials for Standardized Forced Entry and Ballistic Resistance Develop and test standards for low-carbon materials that meet the government’s forced entry and ballistic resistance security requirements. The project’s results will help reduce the embodied carbon associated with the construction of secure areas within RCMP detachments and other secure government facilities. Royal Canadian Mounted Police & Global Affairs Canada $605,000 Real Property 2027
Low Embodied Carbon Materials for Police Facilities with Detention Areas Identify and test the performance of low embodied carbon and carbon sequestering materials to determine their suitability for use in the construction of police facility detention areas. Results will be used to develop detention security standards that support greening government efforts. Royal Canadian Mounted Police $475,000 Real Property 2027
Greening Grounds Maintenance Equipment in PEI Parks Eliminate fossil fuels from all ground maintenance activities by replacing gas and diesel-powered grounds maintenance equipment with zero-emission mowers and electric hand tools. The projects results will effectively reduce GHG emissions from PEIs ground maintenance activities, reduce noise and operational cost and will facilitate similar transitions for other Parks Canada administered locations. Parks Canada Agency $364,000 Fleet 2027
Ground Source Heat Pumps for Space Heating in Arctic and Sub-Arctic Buildings Install and test a ground source heat pump (GSHP) system in a federal building situated in the Arctic. The demonstration project and accompanying feasibility studies will be used to develop a design guide and pre-feasibility assessment tool for estimating energy savings under different climatic conditions. Natural Resources Canada & Department of National Defence $1,225,000 Real Property 2027
Ongoing Commissioning (OCx) Demonstration Projects Pilot Ongoing Commissioning (OCx), a process of continuously monitoring and optimizing building performance, in 3 different federal buildings. When combined with Smart Building technologies, OCx helps preserve the GHG reductions resulting from other projects such as deep retrofits. Natural Resources Canada $880,000 Real Property 2026
Jump to: Page
1
Jump to: Page
2
Jump to: Page
3
Jump to: Page
4
Jump to: Page
5
Jump to: Page
10
Next
Page details
Date modified: 2024-11-28