First Nation Infrastructure Fund
Funding for First Nations communities to improve community infrastructure.
On this page
About the program
Who can apply
Deadline
How to apply
Related links
About the program
The First Nation Infrastructure Fund (FNIF) helps First Nations communities upgrade and increase public infrastructure to improve the quality of life and the environment in First Nations communities.
The FNIF supports a wide range of infrastructure projects on reserves, Crown land or land set aside for the use and benefit of First Nations. The FNIF targets infrastructure categories with long-standing community needs.
Off-reserve projects can be considered if they are cost-shared  with non-First Nations partners, such as nearby municipalities or other Indigenous partners.
The FNIF was created as a complementary source of funding to the
Capital Facilities and Maintenance Program
and includes 9 categories of eligible infrastructure projects:
planning and skills development
solid waste management
roads and bridges
energy systems
connectivity
structural mitigation (previously disaster mitigation)
fire protection
cultural and recreational facilities
band administrative buildings
Who can apply
First Nations communities can apply through their First Nation Infrastructure Investment Plan.
For more details, consult the
First Nation Infrastructure Fund Program guide
.
Deadline
The deadline to submit your First Nation Infrastructure Investment Plan is in the fall of each year. There is no deadline to receive FNIF funding.
How to apply
Projects are identified, reviewed and selected by Indigenous Services Canada (ISC), based on the
First Nation Infrastructure Investment Plans
.
Contact your
ISC regional office
to learn more.
Related links
Evaluation of the First Nation Infrastructure Fund
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2022-07-11