Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative
Part of the REGI program
Artificial intelligence (AI) technologies have the potential to transform businesses and make them more competitive internationally. As countries around the world join the race to develop and use AI, Canada is already a leader in this field.
For this reason, the Government of Canada is making strategic investments to provide businesses across the country with the tools they need to adopt AI and to develop new technologies and processes that integrate AI.
The Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative (RAII) is one of the initiatives announced in Budget 2024 aimed at supporting transformative projects. In this spirit, Canada’s regional development agencies (RDAs) have $200 million to boost the development and commercialization of new technologies and solutions, as well as the accelerated adoption of AI by SMEs. The RAII pays particular attention to sectors critical to the Canadian economy, such as agriculture, clean technology, life sciences and manufacturing, and supports structural projects that generate spin-offs in all regions across the country.
In Quebec, the RAII is delivered by CED and has a budget of $38.2M in funding. The initiative ends on March 31, 2029.
Eligible clients
SMEs that commercialize or develop AI technologies or solutions, including start-ups
SMEs that are ready to adopt AI technologies or solutions
NPOs that support SMEs in developing, commercializing or adopting AI technologies
Indigenous-led businesses and NPOs, including individual businesses
Ineligible clients
Municipalities
Public agencies, including health and social services agencies, schools and school boards
Eligible activities
Eligible projects must contribute to one of the two pillars targeted by this initiative:
To support the development of products and the commercialization of AI by start-ups and growing businesses, for example:
Projects that make it possible to demonstrate and/or commercialize AI technologies and solutions (meaning a technology readiness level of 6 or higher)
Projects that make it possible to develop business activity and strengthen the capacity for AI
To accelerate the adoption or integration of AI by SMEs, including in critical sectors, for example:  
Projects to adopt or strategically integrate AI
Projects that support the AI ecosystem aimed at AI adoption and integration by SMEs
Other activities may be eligible. Contact us to share your project.
Additional prioritization
Depending on available funding, priority may be given to the following projects:
Projects submitted by SMEs
Projects to adapt technologies that demonstrate potential benefits for several businesses
Projects that support the adoption of technologies adapted to businesses or that contribute to technological know-how and the development of innovation in Canada
Projects that include the implementation of cybersecurity measures
Projects that encourage the transition to environmentally sustainable activities and practices
Financial support
For SMEs
Interest-free repayable financial support up to 50% of authorized costs
For NPOs
Generally non-repayable financial support up to 90% of authorized costs
Costs are eligible from the date the application is submitted.
Responsible AI
Responsible AI is a priority of the Government of Canada. In this regard, CED aims to raise awareness among its potential clients and encourage them to adopt AI responsibly, making it possible to use AI while respecting human rights and democratic values, in addition to fostering inclusive economic growth.

To learn more about responsible AI, check out these tools:
Government of Canada Voluntary Code of Conduct for Advanced Generative AI Systems
Montréal Declaration for a Responsible Development of Artificial Intelligence
Submitting a project
Would you like to submit a project?
Consult the project submission guide
Contact us for further information
Contact us
How to contact us
Find out all the ways you can contact us.
Client satisfaction
Share your opinion about the quality of our services.
Follow us
      Stay tuned for advice and services from CED
Subscribe to our newsletter