CED Menu
PRINCIPAL
CED MENU
Canada Economic Development for Quebec regions
Funding and support for SMEs and economic non-profit organizations (NPOs) in all regions of Quebec.
Financing and services

Do you have questions about the impact of the tariffs imposed by the U.S.? Find out more about Canada’s response and the resources available to help affected businesses.

Most requested
Business Information Services
Discover how our information services can help you.
Development of defence and aerospace markets
Take advantage of our defence and aerospace representation services for your business development needs.
Our regional offices
We have 11 regional offices to serve you.
Financing and services
Festivals in the Greater Montréal region
Open
Help organizations renew how they market and develop products in order to enhance what they offer.
Social Economy Mutualization
Open
Support for equipment and technology mutualization by social economy enterprises.
Artificial Intelligence
Open
Strengthening AI innovation and AI adoption by SMEs.
Homebuilding Innovation
Open
Support for manufacturing SMEs and NPOs in the development of innovative solutions for the multi-unit residential construction industry.
Social innovation for Montréal’s east end
Open
Funding for social innovation projects in support of the economic transformation of Montreal’s east end.
Northern Isolated Community
Open
Help Nunavik's Inuit and local food production systems develop innovative solutions to the challenges of the northern environment to create the conditions for sustainable economic vitality.
Economically Vulnerable RCMs
Open
A new approach to targeted support in Quebec's most economically vulnerable regional county municipalities (RCMs).
Economic Development in Montréal’s East End
Open
Promote development initiatives that support the revitalization, attractiveness, and sustainable reindustrialization of Montreal’s East End.
Tourism Growth
Closed
Help SMEs, NPOs and communities enhance regional tourism products and experiences to increase their potential to attract visitors from outside Quebec.
Quantum Innovation
Open
Helping SMEs and the NPOs to adopt, develop and market quantum technologies.
Official Languages
Open
Support for SMEs and NPOs to foster the economic development of official language minority communities.
Diversify Your Economy
Open
Support for SMEs and NPOs to help them attract international organizations to the regions, draw tourists from outside Quebec or acquire community economic facilities.
Business Scale-up and Productivity
Open
Support for SMEs and NPOs for innovative projects that foster business growth and competitiveness.
Regional Innovation Ecosystems
Open
Support for NPOs to create an innovation-friendly entrepreneurial environment that fosters business growth and productivity.
Contact us
Canada Economic Development for Quebec regions
800, boulevard René-Lévesque Ouest, bureau 500
Montréal (Québec) H3B 1X9

Phone: 1-800-561-0633
ATS: 1-844-805-8727
Business hours: Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
(Closed on statutory holidays)
You can contact us by email:
Contact us
Success stories
Québec–Chaudière-Appalaches Business Office: Land of heritage and innovation
The Québec–Chaudière-Appalaches Business Office supports a region where tradition blends with innovation.
Building Jambette one play structure at a time
The Lévis business is a leader in the area of outdoor play equipment in Canada.
Innovative Vehicle Institute: Always at the cutting edge!
Discover how the IVI is positioning itself as a leader in decarbonizing transportation.
View more
Newsroom
Press releases
Gaspésie: $2.8M from Government of Canada to stimulate economic growth
2025-03-07 09:59
Government of Canada invests in growth with support for Tôlerie Outaouais
2025-03-07 09:00
Supporting economic development in Montréal’s East End
2025-03-06 12:59
Media advisories
Invitation to media – Minister Steven Guilbeault to announce Government of Canada support for 42 organizations in Montréal’s East End
2025-03-05 07:58
Invitation to media – Marc Miller to announce Government of Canada support for 12 Montréal organizations
2025-02-28 07:58
Invitation to media – Minister François‑Philippe Champagne to announce Government of Canada support for 18 projects that will contribute to Mauricie’s economic development
2025-02-27 10:24
Newsroom
Our orgnaization
The Honourable Pascale St-Onge
Minister of Tourism and Minister responsible for the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec
Annie Koutrakis
Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Tourism and Minister responsible for the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec
Sony Perron
Deputy Minister/President of the Economic Development Agency of Canada for the Regions of Quebec / Deputy Minister of Economic Development
Stay tuned for advice and services from CED
Subscribe to our newsletter
Follow us
Page details
Date modified: 2025-03-11