Innovation for Defence Excellence and Security
What is IDEaS?
Innovation for Defence Excellence and Security is more than just a funding program. We are accelerating concepts and propelling solutions forward, building a defence innovation ecosystem.
Learn more about how IDEaS works

Get informed
Be the first to know about new challenges and program-specific news.
Subscribe
Featured opportunities
Help solve a challenge faced by the Canadian Armed Forces and get funding to advance your research. Get feedback on your technology from military experts and build your network.
Stay connected: Seamless transitions between mobile broadband networks
OPEN
Competitive Projects Seeking solutions for continuous and uninterrupted connectivity when moving between 4G and 5G mobile broadband networks. 5
Extended communication coverage: Exploiting connections of Earth and space systems
OPEN
Competitive Projects Seeking solutions that exploit NTN to enhance network capabilities for operational support in domains of public safety and defence. 4
Don't skip a beat: Medical diagnostics and sensing for combat operations
OPEN
Competitive Projects Seeking portable and deployable medical diagnostic equipment or medical decision support systems to help triage casualties in a combat environment. 3
Unmasking biothreats: Identifying biological agents in the field
OPEN
Competitive Projects Seeking solutions for the identification of potential biological agents to guide decision making around the safety of personnel and the public. 2
View all opportunities
What does the IDEaS program provide?
IDEaS provides five funding mechanisms to assist Canadian innovators in solving defence and security challenges.
Competitive Projects
Up to $6.75M in phased development funding to propel technology forward.
Innovation Networks
Up to $3M to stimulate the free flow of ideas critical for innovations.
Contests
Competition between innovators is the fuel we use to foster the best innovative solutions.
Sandboxes
We bring in the experts, you bring the technology. Then, it’s play time.
Test Drives
The Department of National Defence will put your tech through its paces.
Innovator journeys
See where IDEaS funded technologies are headed next.
  Previous
Item
1 of 3
Next
Play
- Start tab rotation
Innovator journeys: 2024 CUAS Sandbox – Innovators (Transcript)
Social media
Facebook:
FacebookPageName
X:
@XAccount
LinkedIn
Youtube:
YouTubeName
 Contact us
Upcoming events
IDEaS participates in and hosts events to promote defence innovation.
See full list of events
Date modified: 2025-02-13