Funding that helps your company grow into global markets
The CanExport SMEs program is accepting applications
Program dates
CanExport SMEs is accepting applications for projects taking place in the 2025-2026 fiscal year. To qualify, project expenses must be incurred between April 1, 2025, and March 31, 2026.
New Applicant's Guide
A new
CanExport SMEs Applicants Guide
is available to help guide applicants through the submission process. It is critical to follow the guide when submitting an application as program requirements have changed.
Program changes
To better serve Canadian businesses and manage funding more efficiently, we are introduced program changes such as:
Greater focus on export diversification
: Applicants may target either the United States or international markets, but not both.
Changes to eligible expenses.
New requirements
: Applicants must upload articles of incorporation, as well as GST 34 return or FP-500-V for Quebec-based applicants.
Sign up for our mailing list
to receive updates.
Eligible small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) can get up to
$50,000
to cover
50%
of the costs of exporting products or services to countries where they have little or no sales. CanExport funding can help your company expand beyond Canada, unlocking global markets and opportunities to grow your business worldwide.
Who can apply
To be eligible, you must:
be established in Canada
be for-profit
be an incorporated legal entity, limited liability partnership (LLP) or cooperative
have an active
Canada Revenue Agency
(CRA) business number
have between 1 and 500 full-time equivalent (FTE) employees
have $100,000 to $100 million in declared revenue in Canada during its past fiscal year (or 12 months for quarterly filers)
New Applicant's Guide:
Review our
Applicant's Guide
as program requirements have changed. To apply, review the "
How to apply
" section of the guide.
What activities we fund
We provide support to:
travel to foreign markets
in-person participation in trade missions, trade shows, meetings, or conferences
gather market intelligence (custom research, reports, and studies)
apply for intellectual property protection in international markets
adapt contractual agreements and apply for supplier diversity certifications in international markets
seek expert legal and business advice
translate, adapt, or create marketing materials tailored to your market(s)
Featured
Diversify your exports: How Canadian businesses can succeed in global markets
Quebec company helping to protect water resources in Europe
Gaming company adapts to play at a higher level
Date modified:
2025-03-13