Regional Homebuilding Innovation Initiative (RHII) in the Prairie Provinces - 1. What this program offers
From
Prairies Economic Development Canada
1. What this program offers
2. Who is eligible
3. Before you apply
4. How to apply
5. How projects are assessed
6. After you apply
1. What this program offers
Intake open
Applications will be accepted on a continuous basis until the end of the program on March 31, 2026, or until funding has been fully committed, or until otherwise announced here.  Applicants are encouraged to submit their proposals as soon as possible for consideration under this program.
All projects must be completed by March 31, 2026.
Through the Regional Homebuilding Innovation Initiative (RHII), the federal government is investing $50 million over 2 years, starting in 2024-25, to support local innovative housing solutions across the country. PrairiesCan will invest $9.6M in projects such as designing and upscaling of modular homes, the use of 3D printing, mass timber construction, panelized construction, as well as implementing net-zero and climate resilient housing practices.
The RHII builds on
Solving the Housing Crisis: Canada’s Housing Plan
.
Program objective
The RHII aims to change the way houses are built and provide more Canadians with a place to call home faster. It provides repayable contributions directly to businesses to help enhance local and regional housing supply chain and advance innovation in the residential construction sector.
Available assistance
PrairiesCan will fund up to 50% of eligible project costs in interest-free repayable funding. At least 50% of total project funding must come from non-government sources.
PrairiesCan contributions must range between $200,000 to a maximum of $5 million per project†.
[†Maximum of one project per year and $10M per organization]
Document navigation
Next
: 2. Who is eligible
Guides and help
Help guide for the Regional Homebuilding Innovation Initiative (RHII) expression of interest form
Regional Homebuilding Innovation Initiative (RHII) applicant guide
Contact us
For additional RHII information, contact us directly at one of our
regional offices
by calling
1-888-338-9378.
Related program
RHII is part of the national
Regional Economic Growth through Innovation
program.
Page details
Date modified:
2024-12-06