Regional Innovation Ecosystems
Part of the REGI
Description of funding
This stream targets NPO projects that help create an innovation-friendly entrepreneurial environment that fosters the growth and productivity of businesses in a given region. The funding is provided under the REGI program.
  To be eligible, projects must meet one of the following objectives:
foster closer ties among the players in the various ecosystems
foster the creation, growth and maintenance of regional clusters
attract foreign investment
Main sectors that are eligible:
Manufacturing
Food processing
Information and communications technologies
Life sciences
Other sectors may also be eligible.
Examples of funded projects
Transfer of technology and knowledge to businesses
Acquisition of cutting-edge equipment by recognized research centres and educational institutions, and incubators or accelerators
Innovation support service
Recruiting of highly skilled resources to increase businesses’ innovation capacity
Partnership, alliances and industrial clusters
Creation or development of associations, alliances or partnerships to promote ties and networking
Services aimed at attracting foreign direct investment to Quebec
Other activities may also be eligible. Contact us to discuss your project.
Financial assistance
For NPOs
Non-repayable financial assistance generally of up to 90% of authorized costs (up to 50% of authorized costs in the case of capital projects).

Eligible costs

All costs directly related to the project that are deemed reasonable by CED and essential to the implementation of the project. Restrictions may apply in certain cases.

Ineligible costs

All non-essential costs not directly related to the project, as well as:
the refinancing of an existing debt
the purchase of an asset at a price that exceeds its fair market value
amortization expenses
goodwill costs
land purchases

Eligibility

Examples of eligible clients
Non-profit organizations (NPOs) that provide services or generate benefits for businesses
Business incubators and accelerators
Municipalities and regional county municipalities (RCMs)
Groups or associations (NPOs, businesses, post-secondary institutions and consortia)
Indigenous organizations
  * Are you an SME or NPO in an economically vulnerable RCM or in Montréal’s East End? Your project may be eligible for flexible program conditions.

Examples of ineligible clients
Retail businesses (e.g., clothing stores, grocery stores or automobile sales and maintenance outlets)
Food services (e.g., restaurants and cafés)
Transportation services
Housing construction
Daycare services
Hair and beauty salons
Nightclubs, bars and cabarets
Are you ineligible? Check out our network of partners who may be able to help you.

Analysis criteria

Projects are analyzed against specific criteria, namely:
the expected results of your project
the viability of your organization
your technical and financial management capacity
the contribution of partners in terms of financial resources or professional services
the degree of risk

Submitting a project
Looking to submit a project? Here are the steps to follow:
Refer to the Project Submission Guide.
For more information, contact us.
Useful resources
Events
Federal Strategy on Innovation and Growth for the Quebec Regions
Project presentation guide
Resources and tools
Contact us
How to contact us
Find out all the ways you can contact us.
Client satisfaction
Share your opinion about the quality of our services.
Follow us
      Stay tuned for advice and services from CED
Subscribe to our newsletter