Offshore Deployment Program - Emissions Reduction Fund
Transitioning to a low-carbon future in offshore oil and gas
Who can apply?
Determine your eligibility
Intake period
Request an Application Form
Download the Applicant’s Guide
Submit your application
The Offshore Deployment Program will further position the offshore oil and gas sector as a leader in Canada’s transition to a low carbon future
Apply for interest-free repayable funding to reduce GHG emissions and contribute to Canada’s clean energy future.
The ERF Offshore Deployment Program:
Supports projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions
Advances projects that improve the environmental performance of oil spill monitoring, detection and response activities
Offers repayable financing to support Canada’s offshore oil and gas sector
Offers favourable repayment options over five years
Program benefits
The ERF Offshore Deployment Program will help ensure that investments in deployable technologies continue across Canada’s offshore sector despite the unprecedented challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic and global oil price instability. This will maintain jobs and opportunities for Canadians while positioning industry to keep up with and lead the global energy transition, making Canada more globally competitive in a post-pandemic environment.
The new fund complements the $320 million in funding the Government of Canada provided as part of an agreement reached with the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador to support Canadians with offshore energy jobs, in response to the significant economic and financial distress.
Key dates
Text version
2020 Intake Period
Request for proposals opens – November 9, 2020
2021 and 2022
The Offshore Deployment Program will continue to accept and consider new applications until all Program funding has been allocated.
Ongoing:
Assessment of proposals
Selection of Projects and notification of  applicants
Initiate Contribution Agreements (CA)
2023
March 31, 2023 - All funding allocated
Steps to apply for ERF funding
To apply for ERF-Offshore Deployment Program funding, applicants are required to submit a complete application form and all requested supporting documentation.
Full details on the application process are in the
Applicant’s Guide
(PDF, 1.39 MB).
Please
contact us by email
to request a copy of the application form.
The Offshore Deployment  Program will continue to accept and consider new applications until all Program  funding has been allocated.
Note: the maximum size of email attachments to Natural Resources Canada is 10MB. If the submission exceeds the maximum, the applicant may forward their files in a series of emails with the same subject line. Natural Resources Canada is not responsible for the security of the files during transmission.
Applicants are encouraged to contact the
Offshore Deployment Program
if they have any questions about the application process or content required to better define their Project Proposal.
Who can apply?
Companies and organizations who operate in, or directly support, upstream oil and gas in the Canada-Newfoundland and Labrador offshore area are eligible to apply for the ERF’s $42 million Offshore Deployment Program
Determine your eligibility
Eligible activities include:
Projects that result in the reduction or elimination of greenhouse gas and other pollution emissions
Projects that result in measurable environmental performance improvements, particularly in relation to monitoring of spills or unintended release, detection, and response
Intake period
Program proposals will be accepted  on an ongoing basis until all Program funding has been allocated
Request an application form
Download a
read-only
version of the application form
(PDF, 858 KB)
To request an editable version of the application, please
email the Offshore Deployment Program
.
Download the Applicant’s Guide
Download the Applicant’s Guide
(PDF, 1.33 MB)
Submit your application
Please submit completed applications to
nrcan.erfoffshore-freextracotier.rncan@canada.ca
.
Stay connected
Date modified:
2025-01-13