Green Freight Program Applicant’s Guide: Stream 1
Introduction
Eligibility criteria
Funding activities
How to apply
Contact us for help
We listened to you!
As a direct result of industry feedback, the Green Freight Program has made several modifications to Stream 1 that came into effect April 1, 2024. The goal is to streamline the application process, as well as respond to industry needs, while maintaining the highest fiscal responsibility.
Introduction
Stream 1 of the Program provides grant funding up to a maximum of $250,000 per Applicant towards Third-Party Fleet Energy Assessments and Truck/Trailer Equipment Retrofits. Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) has established a list of approved retrofit devices, of which a percentage of the cost are eligible for a grant.
This stream aims to increase the knowledge and capacity of the on-road freight transportation sector to adopt energy efficiency measures tailored to operational needs by providing financial support. Stream 1 of the Program is accepting applications through a continuous intake process. Only applications that meet the Program’s requirements as outlined in this Guide will receive a grant on a first come, first served basis.
Eligibility criteria
Eligible Applicants
To be eligible for a grant, Applicants must meet the following two (2) requirements:
Only entities operating in Canada are eligible to apply. Eligible Applicants include:
Companies;
Industry associations;
Research associations;
Standards organizations;
Indigenous and community groups;
Canadian academic institutions; and
Provincial, territorial, regional, or municipal governments or their departments or agencies where applicable.
Entity must have one or more heavy-duty vehicles for business use in their fleet that is licensed and insured to operate in Canada.
NOT ELIGIBLE:
Softwood lumber companies and those that are vertically integrated with softwood lumber companies.
Vehicle eligibility criteria
Vehicles and/or trailers must:
Be in service and be within the eligible vehicles weight classes.
Eligible vehicles
Weight Class
Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR)
Class 2B
Between 3,856 kg and 4,536 kg
Class 3
Between 4,536 kg and 6,350 kg
Class 4
Between 6,350 kg and 7,257 kg
Class 5
Between 7,257 kg and 8,845 kg
Class 6
Between 8,845 kg and 11,793 kg
Class 7
11,793 kg and 14,969 kg
Class 8
More than 14,969 kg
Cargo vans, cutaway vans, and step vans for commercial use are eligible vehicles.
Off-road vehicles are  eligible vehicles.
An off-road vehicle  is defined as a vehicle designed primarily for the transportation of property  or equipment
exclusively
on  undeveloped road rights of way, marshland, open country, or other unprepared  surfaces.
Note  that off-road vehicles used for recreational purposes are NOT eligible.
It  is at the discretion of the program to determine eligibility of funding  recipients.
Leased vehicles are  eligible vehicles.
The lessee must have a  valid lease agreement and vehicle registration at the time of application, and  they must have the legal authority to modify the vehicle or trailer for which  fuel saving device(s) will be installed.
Note that the renter of a vehicle  subject to a short-term rental agreement is not eligible
. The Applicant  would need to be the primary owner of the rental vehicle.
Non-eligible vehicles
Types of vehicles not eligible for funding include:
SUVs;
Pickup trucks;
Public transit buses;
School buses;
Off-road vehicles used for recreational purposes;
Newly purchased vehicles that are already equipped  with the proposed retrofit device(s) at the time of delivery; and
Vans that are
not
cutaway, step, or cargo for commercial use.
Funding activities
Stream 1 of the Program provides grant funding up to a maximum of $250,000 per Applicant per fiscal year towards two types of activities:
Third-Party Fleet Energy Assessments; and/or
Truck/Trailer Equipment Retrofits.
Under Stream 1, only eligible activities meeting all program requirements completed and paid in full on or after December 12, 2022 will be considered for a grant. Funding under Stream 1 is allocated per fiscal year, starting from April 1st of a given year and ending on March 31st of the following year. Upon notice of three months posted on this website, Natural Resources Canada may reallocate the maximum amount available for Stream 1 per fiscal year.
a) Third-Party Fleet Energy Assessment Grant
Applicants can hire a third-party energy assessment company of their choosing to complete the Fleet Energy Assessment; however, the assessment
must meet the minimum requirements
in
NRCan’s Fleet Energy Assessment Checklist
. Third-party fleet energy assessments will also require a written explanation to support Sections 3 and 4 of the assessment. This written explanation should clearly outline why the technology is being recommended and how the analysis was conducted.
The following table lists the types of assessments that will be eligible to receive a grant.
Assessment Type
Criteria
Grant Amount
Basic Third-Party Assessment
The Third-Party Assessment must meet criteria for a Basic Fleet Assessment outlined in NRCan’s Fleet Energy Assessment Checklist. This assessment explores fleet retrofits and small-scale logistical best practice projects.
50% of the cost up to a maximum $20,000
Enhanced Third-Party Assessment
The Third-Party Assessment must meet criteria for the Enhanced Fleet Assessment outlined in NRCan’s Fleet Energy Assessment Checklist. Enhanced Third-Party Assessments explore complex and large-scale engine repower, alternative fuel truck purchase and logistical best-practice projects.
50% of the cost up to $40,000
b) Truck/Trailer Equipment Retrofit Grant
Stream 1 provides funding for the purchase and installation of new fuel-saving equipment retrofits for trucks and trailers
completed on or after December 12, 2022.
IMPORTANT
: To be eligible for the Truck/Trailer Equipment Retrofit Grant, the Applicant’s fleet
must
undergo a Fleet Energy Assessment
before
they purchase any new fuel-saving device(s) and the assessment
must
analyze and recommend the device(s) that the Applicant plans to purchase.
The Applicant can independently conduct and submit a
self-assessment
at no additional cost or submit an
assessment that was conducted by a third-party energy assessor
on or after January 1, 2019, as long as the assessment meet the Basic Fleet Assessment criteria outlined in
NRCan’s Fleet Energy Assessment Checklist
.
Please note, self-fleet energy assessments are not eligible for reimbursement.
Stream 1 will provide funding towards the purchase and installation of a set list for trucks and trailers new fuel-saving devices. The tables below list the devices that are eligible for a grant up to a maximum cost per device.
Aerodynamics Retrofits
Device
Description
Grant amount
Boat Tail / Trailer Rear Device
A rear device that reduces the wake field following the trailer, which can affect air some distance beyond the back of the trailer.
50% up to max of $2,500 per device
Trailer Top and Side Kits
A device attached on the top and underside of a trailer to reduce air flow and turbulence for weather and wind-sensitive loads.
50% up to max of $1,000 per device
Trailer Fairings / Side Skirt
A device installed on the underside of a trailer to address aerodynamic drag on trailers to reduce air flow by preventing wind from ducking in underneath.
50% up to max of $2,500 per device
Trailer Underbody Fairing
A device attached underside of a trailer to support aerodynamic drag especially when ambient winds are not aligned with the tractor and trailer. This device provides greater clearance and access under the trailer than with full skirts.
50% up to a max of $2,000 per device
Tractor-Trailer Gap Reducer
Tractor-to-trailer gap closer device that can be attached either to the trailer or the tractor to minimize the gap and reduce air turbulence.
50% up to a max of $1,000 per device
Aerodynamic Splash Guard
A device that reduces drag by redirecting or blocking less air compared to conventional splash guards.
50% up to a max of $80 per device
Vented Mud Flaps
Vented mud flaps are designed with holes for allowing air to flow through the flaps while maintaining the function of lowering water spray and deflecting object
50% up to a max of $80 per device
Wheel Covers
Devices inserted into the wheel of all tires to streamline the airflow around the tires and improve overall fuel efficiency strategy.
50% up to max of $250 per device
Anti-idling Retrofits
Device
Description
Grant amount
Cab Heater
Device provides heating, reducing the need for idling the primary engine to power onboard systems.
50% up to a max of $2,000 per device
Cab Cooler
Device provides cooling, reducing the need for idling the primary engine to power onboard systems.
50% up to a max of $3,000 per device
Coolant Heater
Device is mounted in the engine compartment and uses the truck’s integrated heat-transfer system to draw fuel from the fuel tank to heat the vehicle’s coolant, and pumps the heated coolant through the engine, radiator, and heater box.
50% up to a max of $1,500 per device
Auxiliary Power Units Retrofits
Device
Description
Grant amount
Diesel/conventional APU
Provides electricity and heating,
        ventilation and air conditioning from a smaller diesel engine, instead of the main engine, which burns less fuel to provide the same services.
50% up to a max of $10,000 per device
Electric APU
Provides electricity and in some cases HVAC without burning any fuel during operation.
50% up to a max of $10,000 per device
Electric APU paired with solar panel
Provides electricity without burning any fuel during operation, paired with solar panels to supplement other power sources.
50% up to a max of $10,000 per device
Tires Retrofits
IMPORTANT:
Please note that Stream 1 tire grants are for
new tires only and they must also be on the
SmartWay Verified Tire Technologies
. Recap or retread tires
are not eligible
for funding.
Device
Description
Grant amount
Low rolling resistant tires (dual configuration)
New low rolling resistance tires, will save significant amounts of fuel when compared to tires that are not designed for low rolling resistance.
20% up to a max of $500 per device, with a maximum grant of $10,000 per applicant, per year.
Wide-Base Tires (wide-base configuration size 445 or greater)
Low rolling resistance wide-base tires achieve a lower rolling resistance compared to dual tires by reducing vehicle weight, rolling resistance, and therefore strain on the engine. Wide-base tires have a slight advantage over duals by being slightly less wide, further improving fuel efficiency (by an estimate of 1-2%).
30% up to a max of $2,000 per device, including the cost associated with  the purchase of the wheel and rim.
Automatic tire inflation system
Device monitors tire inflation pressure relative to a pre-set target and re-inflates tires whenever the detected pressure is below the target level.
50% up to a max of $1,000 per device
Tire pressure monitoring system
Low tire pressure monitoring systems improve commercial motor vehicle safety and fuel economy by automatically measuring and indicating air pressure and relaying tire air pressure information to the operator.
50% up to a max of $1,000 per device
Other Devices
Device
Description
Grant amount
Diesel-electric refrigeration units
Hybrid refrigeration unit that reduces demand from main diesel engine to cool contents of trailer.
50% up to a max of $15,000 per device
Electric refrigeration units
Electric refrigeration unit that eliminates demand from main diesel engine to cool contents of trailer.
50% up to a max of $12,000 per device
Telematics device
Device that is used to collect real-time data using the mix of sensors, GPS technology, and onboard diagnostic codes.
50% up to a max of $700 per device
Stacking Provisions
Total Government Funding may not exceed 75% of the total cost of the  project, except in the case where the recipient is:
An Indigenous organization;
An indigenous owned or partially owned project;
A not-for-profit organization; or,
A provincial, territorial, regional, or municipal government or their department or agency.
In the above cases, the total Canadian government funding authorized will not exceed 100% of total project costs.
When submitting the application form, recipients will be required to disclose all sources of funding on individual projects, including funding from other federal, provincial/territorial, and municipal governments and industry sources.
How to apply
Application Timelines and  Deadlines
Stream 1: Applications are accepted on a  continuous intake basis until March 31, 2027.
Steps to get ready to apply for a  GFP Grant
Get ready for your application process.  Note that the GFP application form for both types of activities is the same,  but the supporting documents are different.
IMPORTANT:
To ensure confidentiality, transparency, and to avoid  potential conflicts of interest, third-party entities can no longer apply for  GFP on behalf of companies. All communications, including the application  process, must be conducted by a representative of the applicant entity.
Step 1
Applicant must review the
Eligibility  criteria section
to ensure they meet the eligibility criteria for GFP  applicant and vehicles.
Step 2
Applicant must review the
Funding  activities section
to ensure their activities are eligible.
Step 3
If you do not already have a Fleet Energy  Assessment, conduct or purchase one from a third-party assessor. Ensure it  meets the
NRCan’s  Assessment Criteria and Guidelines
.
Step 4
Gather the documents and information you will need to fill and submit your application.
Download files to fill out
Visit the
Transportation and Fuels Decarbonization Programs portal
, select the Green Freight Program Stream 1, and download these documents to prepare your application:
The Applicant’s Attestation
The Device Purchase and Installation Table (if applicable)
General package  for both Third Party Fleet Energy Assessment and Truck/Trailer Fuel-Saving  Retrofits
Documentation regarding the Legal Status of the organization
Copy of your Fleet Energy Assessment
Invoices and proof of payment
Information ready to fill out the application form
Information on the fleet
Description of activities that  were undertaken
Project timelines
Specifics for Truck/Trailer  Fuel-Saving Retrofits
Submit
everything
from the general  package plus:
Signed letter of the company  responsible for installation confirming completion and payment of the project;
The Device Purchase and Installation Table, filled out;
Proof of vehicle registration; and
Proof of other government funding or private funding (if applicable).
Once your application package is ready
Step 5
A complete application package can be submitted through the Transportation and Fuels Decarbonization Programs portal  and will consist of:
A completed online application  form;
Supporting documentation; and
An attestation dated and signed  by a duly authorized officer.
Access the Transportation and Fuels Decarbonization Programs portal
Incomplete application package
Please ensure all  pertinent documentation and information is provided, otherwise your application will automatically be rejected.
Once your application is sent in
NRCan will confirm receipt of the  application within five (5) business days.
The applicants do not have to wait to  receive approval of their application request before sending in a new one.
Important notes
The proof of payment must  demonstrate that the device has been paid in full, including a device that is  fully paid using the Applicant's line of credit or credit card. A loan from a  bank or a private lender will not be accepted until the credit product has been  paid off.
The contact information  provided on the application form
must
belong to a representative of the  applicant entity.
Third-party entities can no  longer apply for GFP on behalf of companies (the ultimate recipients). This  decision was made after careful consideration, to ensure confidentiality,  transparency, and to avoid potential conflicts of interest. All communications,  including the application process, must be conducted by a representative of the  applicant entity. The contact information provided on the application form must  also belong to a representative of the applicant entity.
Natural       Resources Canada reserves the right to amend the Applicant Guide upon a       three-month notice posted on this website to take into account changing       market conditions, including but not limited to inflation. These changes       will come into force in the fiscal year immediately following the notice,       remain in effect until repealed by the Program, and only apply to       applications received after the changes’ coming into force.
To be       eligible for the Truck/Trailer Equipment Retrofit Grant, the Applicant’s       fleet must undergo a Fleet Energy Assessment before they purchase any new       fuel saving device(s) and the assessment must analyse and recommend the       device(s) that the Applicant plans to purchase.
Contact Us
To obtain additional information or for  any queries, please email:
freightassessment-evaluationdeflotte@nrcan-rncan.gc.ca
Date modified:
2025-01-10