Arctic and Northern Challenge program
The Arctic and Northern Challenge program aims to address pressing issues impacting the quality of life of Northern peoples. The program is committed to prioritizing Northern-led research projects that have a strong focus on Northern capacity building. By providing both research funding and scientific expertise, the program will support strong and sustainable Northern communities through applied technology and innovation.
About the program
A document that highlights key information about the program, the research outcomes and information for collaborators is available in the following Indigenous languages and dialects. Please contact
NRC.Arctic_Northern-Arctique_Nord.CNRC@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
if you wish to receive the overview document in any of the languages listed.
Cree
Inuinnaqtun
Inuktitut
Inuvialuktun
Michif
Tlicho
Areas of focus
Working with Canadian and international partners from Northern communities, academia, industry, government and other interested stakeholders, research conducted under the program will examine 4 research themes and 2 cross-cutting areas, as outlined in the
program plan
.
Research themes
Housing
Conduct applied research and/or develop technologies to improve the adequacy, suitability and affordability of Northern homes.
Health
Conduct applied research and/or develop technologies to improve the accessibility, comprehensiveness and appropriateness of Northern health resources.
Food
Conduct applied research and/or develop technologies to improve the accessibility, availability and quality of Northern food resources.
Water
Conduct applied research and/or develop technologies to improve the availability, accessibility and quality of Northern water resources.
Cross-cutting areas
Capacity building
Projects will demonstrate how they will aim to increase Northern and Indigenous R&D capacity (individual, organizational and community), to solve pressing issues confronting Northerners.
Indigenous Knowledge
Projects will show how they will braid Indigenous Knowledge with the study design, data collection, project implementation, training and/or technology advancement, with at least one Indigenous Knowledge holder involved in the project.
Projects funded by the Arctic and Northern Challenge program
Read more about the
projects
that were selected for the first call for proposals from the Arctic and Northern Challenge program in 2022.
Arctic and Northern Challenge program consultation summaries
Feedback from Northern peoples included advice on priority research areas, program mechanics and the importance of cross-cutting themes such as Indigenous Knowledge and capacity building. 4 research themes were identified:
Housing
Health
Food
Water
This information was used to develop the program plan and is provided here to help inform applications to the program. More comprehensive reports on the consultations are available upon request.
Getting involved
For collaborators
There will be ongoing future opportunities for Indigenous collaborators to get involved. Researchers from Indigenous governments and organizations as well as the academic, public and not for profit and private sectors may express their interest in collaborating by
emailing us
. In the meantime, follow us on social media for updates using #NRCArcticNorthernProgram.
Grant and contribution funding
will be available through the NRC's National Program Office for eligible recipients collaborating on projects under the program. This may include contributions to collaborative R&D as well as equipment needed for research in fundamental areas. Consult the
collaborative R&D funding
page for more information.
The Canada-Inuit Nunangat-United Kingdom Arctic Research Programme (CINUK)
The program's first call with its Inuit, United Kingdom and Canadian partners, called
CINUK
, is complete, and
13 projects
have been selected for funding. The research funded under the CINUK programme focuses on changing Arctic ecosystems and the impacts to Inuit communities and beyond.
News and events
News
Empowering youth through the Blue Futures Pathway Expedition (LinkedIn)
Weathering Arctic housing challenges with rapid home retrofits
Weaving together Indigenous expertise and Western science in Arctic clothing
Successful Canadian, Inuit and UK research teams announced for major new Arctic research programme
National Research Council of Canada launches new research program focusing on improving quality of life for Northerners
United Kingdom-Canada Inuit Nunangat and Arctic Region Research Programme will support Inuit self-determination in research
The NRC's Arctic and Northern Newsletter
Read about key developments and unique Northern-led research projects that are addressing the urgent issues affecting the quality of life of Northern peoples.
The
second edition
is now online.
Read the
first edition
.
Please contact
NRC.Arctic_Northern-Arctique_Nord.CNRC@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
if you wish to receive the second edition newsletter in any of the following Indigenous languages:
Gwichin
Inuinnaqtun
Inuktitut
Inuvialuktun
Swampy Cree
Tlicho
The first edition is also available in a number of Indigenous languages. Contact us if you are interested in obtaining copies.
Contact us
If you are interested in collaborating, making investments in this area, attending a workshop or engagement activity, or if you have any questions, please
send us an email
.
Stay connected
Follow the National Research Council of Canada on social media.
X:
@nrc_cnrc
on Twitter
Instagram:
@nrc_cnrc
on Instagram
LinkedIn
Search for:
#NRCArcticNorthernProgram
From:
National Research Council Canada
Date modified:
2025-03-05