Canada–Japan Keihanna Global Acceleration Program—Spring 2025
1. Introduction
2. Application deadlines
3. Program objective
4. Sectors of focus
5. Eligibility requirements
6. Workshop description
7. Funding
8. How to apply
9. Contact
10. Registration
1. Introduction
The National Research Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance
Program (NRC IRAP)
in partnership with Japan's
Keihanna Research Complex
are pleased to invite Canadian small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to submit an expression of interest to participate in a
5-minute
pitch event to seek co-innovation partnerships with world-class Japanese corporations. Selected Canadian SMEs may be invited to meetings in
Osaka, Japan
to solidify their partnerships with interested Japanese corporations.
2. Application deadlines
This call for proposals is open year-round, with pitch events held twice per year. The next scheduled events are:
Canadian registration deadline:
March 20, 2025
Canadian expression of interest submission deadline:
March 27, 2025
Expression of interest result notification:
April 11, 2025
Pitch event:
April 24, 2025
Selection notice:
May 11, 2025
Program start (1 week online):
May 26, 2025
Travel to Japan to meet partners:
June – July, 2025
3. Program objective
This event is focused on establishing industrial co-innovation opportunities between Canadian and Japanese organizations with the aim of participants joining in collaborative research and development (R&D) projects. In previous years, over 70% of Canadian participants in this program successfully matched with a Japanese corporate partner.
4. Sectors of focus
This call for proposals is open to projects in all sectors that are civilian in nature.
5. Canadian eligibility requirements
In order to participate in this initiative, Canadian participants must meet the following requirements:
be an incorporated, profit‑oriented small or medium‑sized business in Canada
have 500 or fewer full‑time equivalent employees
pursue growth and profit by developing and commercializing innovative, technology‑driven new or improved products, services or processes in Canada
have a differentiated and protectable technology that could become competitive in global markets
be committed to significant growth through Japanese market expansion
Preference may be given to SME applicants who:
have a minimum of 10 full‑time equivalent employees
have commercialized 1 or more products domestically or internationally
have greater than $500,000 CAD in annual revenue
have experience in the Japanese market
Note
: Canadian SME applicants must be eligible for funding as NRC IRAP clients before they can be considered for funding through this call for proposals. For more information on NRC IRAP eligibility and becoming a client, please contact NRC IRAP at
1-877-994-4727.
6. Workshop description
The Global Acceleration Program is a week-long course in Japan with mentoring, networking and business strategy development to support entry into the Japanese market. The goal is to match Canadian SMEs to Japanese co-innovation partners.
For each pitch event, NRC IRAP will select
5 to 10 companies
to present their project ideas online to a Japanese panel. The Japanese panel will invite the successful Canadian participants to join the
KGAP+ acceleration program
in Osaka, Japan. Previous Japanese multinationals (MNEs) that have been involved in this program include Toray, Kyocera, Murata, Panasonic and others.
7. Funding
Following successful completion of KGAP, selected Canadian SMEs may be invited to submit a proposal through the IRAP Japan Corporate Program which allows up to 50% reimbursement of eligible activity costs up to a maximum total NRC IRAP funding amount of $75,000.
8. How to apply
Interested Canadian applicants must register using the
register
button at the bottom of this page.
An Expression of Interest form will be provided to potentially eligible applicants. The Expression of Interest application form will request additional information about the applicant, organization, technology and co‑innovation opportunities of interest.
Only qualified Canadian applicants will be invited to participate in a one-week mentoring program and submit the more detailed international collaborative R&D project with their Japanese project partners.
9. Contact
For more information, contact the NRC IRAP International Office at
IRAP.International.PARI@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
or Harvey Lam, NRC IRAP Japan National Program Coordinator at
Harvey.Lam@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
.
10. Registration
Canadian SME participants must be registered NRC IRAP clients. If not already an NRC IRAP client, Canadian SMEs must contact
1-877-994-4727
to determine if they might be eligible for support through NRC IRAP.
To begin the application process, interested Canadian participants must first register online to receive an Expression of Interest form by clicking the
register
button.
If there is no
register
button visible below this line, it means the call for proposals has closed. Please contact the NRC IRAP International Office at
IRAP.International.PARI@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
for more information.
Page details
From:
National Research Council Canada
Date modified:
2025-02-11 00:00:00