Making government services easier to find
USA.gov helps you locate and understand government benefits, programs, and information.
How do I ...
Learn about the U.S. government response to the California wildfires
Get or renew a passport
Find unclaimed money
File for unemployment benefits
Jump to all topics and services
Government benefits and financial assistance
Discover government benefits that you may be eligible for and learn how to apply.
Find benefits
All topics and services
The U.S. and its government
Learn about U.S. laws, history, and more. Buy government property. Contact elected officials and federal agencies.
Complaints
File complaints involving government agencies, telemarketers, products and services, travel, housing, and banking.
Disability services
Find government benefits and programs for people with disabilities and their families.
Disasters and emergencies
Learn about disaster relief and find government benefits for other emergencies.
Education
Learn about Federal Student Aid and studying in the U.S. Find early intervention, special education, and Head Start programs.
Government benefits
Find government programs that may help pay for food, housing, health care, and more.
Health
Get information about health insurance, various health conditions, and help with medical bills.
Housing help
Learn about rental and buyer assistance programs. Find emergency housing and avoid eviction.
Immigration and U.S. citizenship
Learn about U.S. residency, Green Cards, citizenship requirements, and related issues.
Jobs, labor laws, and unemployment
Get resources for finding a job. Learn about unemployment insurance and important labor laws.
Laws and legal issues
Learn how to replace vital records, get child support enforcement, find legal help, and more.
Military and veterans
Learn how to join the military and find benefits and services as a member or veteran.
Money and credit
Find government grants, loans, and unclaimed money. Learn about taxes. Get credit reports and scores.
Scams and fraud
Report a scam and get help. And learn about identity theft and social security scams.
Small business
Learn how to start your own business, including imports and exports.
Taxes
Learn about filing federal income tax. Find out how to pay, how to check your refund, and more.
Travel
Learn about passports, travel documents for minors, and travel to, from, and within the U.S.
Voting and elections
Find out how to register to vote, where your voting location is, how presidential elections work, and more about voting in the United States.
Life events
Discover government benefits and services to help you and your family through every stage of life.