Clean Fuels Fund - Building New Domestic Production Capacity
View funded projects
Status:
The program is currently accepting proposals. The program has the authority to close the intake at any time, such as when the program has received more completed applications than funds available. Submission of a complete application form does
not
guarantee funding.
View the applicant’s guide
Apply online
Canada’s clean fuels industry must significantly increase its current capacity to fulfill its critical role in achieving our net-zero future. To do this, it will be essential to overcome the barrier of the upfront capital investment that industry requires to develop new clean fuel production facilities and increase capacity.
To address this issue, the Clean Fuels Fund provides the investors with cost-shared, conditionally repayable funding. This financial support aims to help build new clean fuel production facilities or retrofit or expand existing ones in Canada.
Additionally, the fund provides non-repayable funding for feasibility studies, basic engineering studies and detailed front-end engineering studies for new facilities, expansions or conversions of existing facilities. These measures will help accelerate the growth and development of the domestic clean fuels industry.
We encourage you to review the
frequently asked questions
for additional information.
Who can apply?
To be considered for funding under the Program, applicants must be a legal entity validly incorporated or registered in Canada including not-for-profit and for-profit organizations.
Program benefits
Funding  the build-out of new production capacity will:
grow the domestic production capacity for clean  fuels
including  clean hydrogen, advanced biofuels, renewable natural gas, and sustainable  aviation fuel, across Canada
offer new opportunities for Canada’s energy sector
in the transition to producing cleaner sources of energy
support Canada’s efforts to reach net-zero
by 2050
position Canada globally
to reap economic, environmental, and social benefits of the energy transition
Contact us
Email the
Clean Fuels Fund
Stay connected
Date modified:
2025-02-11