Xecs call 4 – electronic components and systems
1. Sector of focus
2. Application deadlines
3. How to apply
4. Related tools and events
5. Project funding
6. Canadian funding eligibility
7. More information
8. Contact
Xecs
, the Eureka cluster focused on Electronic Components and Systems (ECS), has launched their fourth annual call for collaborative research and development project proposals.
1. Sector of focus
Micro and nano-electronics and photonics with applications in the following areas:
Agrifood and natural resources
Digital industry
Digital society
Energy
Health and well-being
Mobility
2. Application deadlines
Project Outline:
January 23, 2025 17:00 CET
Full Project Proposal:
April 16, 2025 17:00 CEST
3. How to apply
To apply, applicants must register through the
Xecs Project Zone
. If you are a current NRC IRAP client, please inform your Lead ITA prior to submitting a Project Outline or a Full Project Proposal.
4. Related tools and events
Xecs Matchmaking Event in Hamburg, Germany
–
October 15, 2024:
An opportunity to know more about Xecs and its Call 4, hear about the funding opportunities and the eligibility criteria in each country, as well as present your project idea, listen to pitches, build or reinforce your Xecs project consortia.
See the recording of the Xecs Webinar
: “How to submit a Xecs Proposal in the Project Zone”.
Access the
ECS Collaboration Tool
for project development and consortium building.
5. Project funding
Eligible project participants in collaborative projects selected through this call for proposals may receive funding from their respective national funding body. Funds will be provided in accordance with the applicable laws, regulations, rules and procedures established by the relevant national funding body, country, jurisdiction or program.
Each project participant should contact their
national funding agency
early in the process and follow their advice regarding national funding applications in parallel to the proposal submission.
Non-eligible project participants (e.g. universities, research institutes, and participants from other countries) are welcome to participate on a self-funded basis or as sub-contractors to funded participants, according to each country's funding regulations.
6. Canadian funding eligibility
Canadian SMEs
In Canada this call for proposals is offered through the National Research Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP). NRC IRAP funding is only available for eligible Canadian small or medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Project participants who are not eligible for funding are welcome to participate on a self-funded basis.
To be eligible for funding a Canadian SME applicant must:
be an incorporated, profit-oriented small or medium-sized enterprise (SME) in Canada
have 500 or fewer full-time equivalent employees
pursue growth and profit by developing and commercializing innovative, technology-driven new or improved products, services or processes in Canada
have a differentiated and protectable technology that could become competitive in global markets
have sufficient working capital and resources to undertake a multi-year R&D collaboration and commercialize the results
be committed to significant growth through international market expansion
Preference  may be given to Canadian SME applicants who:
have a minimum of 15 full-time equivalent employees
have commercialized one or more products internationally
have greater than $500,000 CAD in annual revenue
Note:
Canadian SME applicants must be eligible for funding as NRC IRAP clients before they can be considered for funding through this call for proposals. For more information on NRC IRAP eligibility and becoming an NRC IRAP client, please contact NRC IRAP at 1-877-994-4727.
Note:
Canadian SME applicants may apply to more than 1 NRC IRAP funded call for proposals simultaneously. However, NRC IRAP may limit the number of funded projects per applicant. Canadian SME applicants who are applying to more than 1 opportunity or who have ongoing NRC IRAP projects should speak to their NRC IRAP representative for more information.
Other Canadian organizations
Other types of Canadian organizations may participate in Xecs projects. However, they must secure funding from alternative sources or self-fund their project participation.
7. More information
Xecs
is a new cluster under the
Eureka
Clusters Programme and builds on top of the highly successful Euripides
²
and Penta programmes. This cluster is managed by the
AENEAS Industry Association
, with strategic focus provided by AENEAS and its partners
Inside
and
EPoSS
(for more information see the
ECS Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda
). AENEAS is supported by key industry players including:
Adimec
Airbus
ASML
Bosch
CEA
Fraunhofer
Imec
Infineon
IU.Net
muRata
NXP
Philips
Recif Technologies
STMicroelectronics
Soitec
Thales
Volkswagen Group
Zeiss
Xecs provides networking tools and  organises ECS community events where participants can generate and present  project ideas, build consortia and find projects.
8. Contact
To learn more about Xecs and this call for proposals, please visit
Xecs Website
or contact Kasturi Narayanan by email at
Kasturi.Narayanan@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
.
Page details
From:
National Research Council Canada
Date modified:
2024-08-30 00:00:00