Mining Decarbonization Demonstration Call for Proposals
STATUS: Closed
The Energy Innovation Program (EIP) - Mining Decarbonization Demonstration Call (“the Call”) aims to support the uptake of energy decarbonization technologies within Canada’s mining sector. The Call focuses specifically on demonstration activities within Canadian upstream to midstream operations, which is critical to support the scaling and commercialization of the technologies required to achieve impactful emissions reductions and enable the sustainable development of Canada’s low-carbon mineral supply chains.
On this page
Why is Canada investing in Mining Decarbonization Demonstration?
Results
Contact us
Why is Canada investing in Mining Decarbonization Demonstration?
Canada’s mining sector is a major contributor to the national economy and provides critical inputs for the clean technology value chain, but it is also a source of hard-to-abate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Many of the technologies required to decarbonize the unique assets and processes in the mining sector are not yet commercialized. Where technologies are mature, they have yet to achieve wide-scale adoption across the sector. Continued investment in demonstration activities within Canadian upstream to midstream operations, are critical to support the scaling and commercialization of decarbonization technologies used in the mining sector and are necessary to support Canada’s commitment to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050.
Results
The Energy Innovation Program (EIP) - Mining Decarbonization Demonstration Call received 52 eligible submissions, amounting to an overall request of $170.2M.
As the funded projects are announced, they will be posted on our
Current Investments
page.
Contact us
For any questions about the Call, please contact NRCan at:
energyinnovation-innovationenergetique@nrcan-rncan.gc.ca
. During regular operations, NRCan will strive to respond within two business days.
Stay connected
Email the
Energy Innovation Program
Join our
email list
for our latest news and funding opportunities
Watch
the Mining Decarbonization Demonstration Call for Proposals Information Video
Follow
NRCan on LinkedIn
Date modified:
2025-03-21