Business Scale-up and Productivity (BSP) in the Prairie provinces
The stronger you are, the better Canada is. Let’s build a stronger Prairies economy together!
Here is what we can do to help:
we
invest
in your projects that create a stronger, inclusive economy on the Prairies
we
connect
you with other key players to create mutually beneficial business relationships
we can help
pathfind
your project to other sources of funding and expertise to help grow your business and get your products or services to market
Are you a high growth business* that is scaling up and producing innovative goods, services or technologies? Are you all about inclusivity and building a stronger Canada? Do you need more resources to accelerate your growth goals?
Prairies Economic Development Canada (PrairiesCan) is accepting expression of interests for Business Scale-up and Productivity (BSP) on an ongoing basis. For information on how to apply, please contact 1 of
our local offices
.
For information on other available business support, please visit
our website
as well as
Innovation Canada
.
BSP
advances
PrairiesCan’s strategic priorities
. It supports high-growth* businesses that are seeking to improve productivity, scale-up and commercialize technology. It offers interest-free, repayable funding to incorporated businesses.
* Definition of a “high-growth business”
A high growth business can be defined as any for-profit company that has notable and/or consistent revenue increases year-over-year. Priority will normally be given to companies with 20% year-over-year revenue growth.
Here are examples of a high-growth business:
Example 1:
ABC is an innovative Canadian medical devices firm. ABC is a relatively young company operating in North America and would like to expand its product into new markets like Europe and Asia. ABC has generated significant sales growth (such as 26% year-over-year). ABC has profitable reinvestment opportunities and, rather than paying dividends to shareholders, decides to reinvest earnings back into the firm to capitalize on its investment opportunities in order to maintain this high sales growth.
Example 2:
XYZ is an innovative Canadian digital software developer. XYZ is a young company operating in Canada and the USA but would like to introduce its new software, which is in the late stage of development, in order to grow and diversify existing Canadian and American markets. XYZ has generated significant sales growth (such as 22% year over year). XYZ has recently received a round of investments that will assist with its growth.
On this page
Eligibility
Available funding
Eligible costs
Ineligible costs
Expected outcomes
Funding disbursement
Repayment terms
Funding decisions
Application process
How to submit an expression of interest
After submitting an expression of interest
Application review
Elements of a strong proposal
Contacts
Eligibility
The
BSP
program is open to incorporated high-growth businesses that have been operating in the Prairie Provinces for a minimum of 2 years. Preference may be given to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with less than 500 full-time employees (FTEs).
Businesses must meet the following mandatory criteria:
high-growth business that is scaling up and producing innovative goods, services or technologies
incorporated in Canada
have been in business for at least 2 years in Canada
have staffed operating facilities in the Prairie provinces
have confirmed, at the time of expression of interest submission, funding from all other sources, including government and non-government
non-government funding must represent at least 50% of the proposed project costs
be a high-growth business looking to support or accelerate growth through the following activities:
Productivity improvement,
which includes:
acquiring, adapting,and adopting new technologies and processes
process re-engineering
improving manufacturing capacity
Business scale-up,
which includes:
developing or expanding markets
adopting best management practices, processes and systems
developing business opportunities
Technology commercialization,
which includes:
growing and diversifying markets through late stage product development
technology showcasing and demonstration (
Technology Readiness Levels 7-9
as defined by Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada)
maximum project duration of 3 years, focused on 1 or more of the following areas:
Advanced manufacturing.
This is defined by developing and adopting innovative technologies to:
create new products
enhance processes
establish more efficient and cost-effective ways of working
Clean resources.
This refers to transitioning from the old resource economy into a new resource economy. It is where innovation drives economic and environmental competitiveness in the energy, mining and forestry sectors. It leverages Canada’s natural resources advantage to transition to a low-carbon economy.
Clean technology.
This refers to any process, product or service that reduces environmental harm in order to:
control costs
meet new regulations
improve global competitiveness
reduce harm to climate, water, land and air
Digital industries.
This includes:
information and communication technology (ICT)
digital and interactive media
content industries
Health/bio-sciences.
This includes a wide range of companies, such as:
pharmaceutical developers and makers
medical devices and biomedical innovators
digital health solutions producers
precision health
disruptive technologies, such as:
artificial intelligence (AI)
big data analytics
3-D printing
robotics
nanotechnologies
Natural resources value-added processing.
This includes processing natural resources in the energy, mineral or forestry sectors. This adds value to the raw materials.
Value-added agriculture.
This is a complex and interdependent sector that includes agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture. It also includes food and beverages processing.
Note that preference will be given to proposals with a demonstrated focus on:
Food and ingredients processing
includes businesses producing plant-based food and ingredients
Zero emission heavy equipment vehicles
includes manufacturers of urban and intercity buses, fire trucks, motorhomes, recreational vehicles, trailers, mobile agricultural, construction and mining equipment, and their associated suppliers. Related technologies include battery electric and hydrogen fuel cell drives, electrification of ancillary systems, material light weighting and others.
Critical minerals processing
includes companies and service providers that process or create value added materials and/or products from
critical minerals
such as advanced batteries, permanent magnets, solar panels, wind turbines, small modular reactors, defence and security technologies, semiconductors and consumer electronics.
Guides and help
Before submitting an Expression of Interest (EOI), please make sure to consult the
BSP
EOI
help guide
. The
BSP
applicant guide
is also available for further reference.
What do
BSP
-funded companies have to say?
“The support from PrairiesCan has meant we’ve not just retained our team but we’ve kept on hiring right through the pandemic.”
–Cory, Janssen, Co-Founder and Co-CEO, AltaML
“Partnering with the Government of Canada’s Business Scale-Up program has been instrumental to the growth of our brewery. As a manufacturer and producer, we have a great potential to both scale up our operations as well as expand strategically – but only with the right support. Because of the program’s flexibility and financial assistance, our business is years ahead of where we’d be without it.”
–Matthew Sabourin, President, Nonsuch Brewing Co.
“Biktrix is thankful to our government for helping us scale our business by investing in us. PrairiesCan investment will help Biktrix catapult our growth by hiring more qualified staff and generating more economic impact through local and export sales.”
–Roshan Thomas, CEO and Founder, Biktrix Enterprises Inc.
Available Funding
Up to 50% of eligible project costs:
minimum $200,000; maximum $5 million per project from PrairiesCan†
minimum 50% of total project funding required from confirmed non-government sources
you must confirm all non-PrairiesCan sources when you apply and once again after project approval
†Maximum $10 million to any 1 organization
Eligible costs
Incremental costs essential to the project. For example:
capital costs (equipment, machinery)
labour (wages, benefits)
marketing
costs related to intellectual property
technology development and commercial demonstrations
professional, advisory, technical services
Ineligible costs
Costs deemed unreasonable, non-incremental and/or not directly related to project activities, for example:
basic and applied
R&D
(
Technology Readiness Level 1-6
)
land acquisition and goodwill
salary bonuses and dividend payments
entertainment expenses
refinancing of existing debts
amortization or depreciation of assets
lobbying activities
Donations, dues and membership fees are ineligible.
Expected outcomes
PrairiesCan is looking to support projects that have a viable plan to
produce strong economic outcomes.
Applicants must quantify, substantiate and later report on the following expected results:
number of highly-qualified personnel (HQP) jobs created in Canada
number of non-
HQP
jobs created in Canada
revenue growth ($)
export sales growth ($)
incremental private sector investment attracted ($)
number of technologies to market
business sales growth resulting from commercialization or adoption ($) – where applicable
PrairiesCan is working to improve the economic participation of underrepresented groups such as Indigenous peoples, women, and youth. Applicants are encouraged to report on efforts to support inclusiveness. Refer to the Government of Canada’s
Inclusive Innovation Agenda
Funding disbursement
PrairiesCan provides funding based on submitted claims.
PrairiesCan will reimburse based on approved portion (in other words 50%) of eligible project costs that have been incurred and paid.
Other funding considerations
Consult your accountant and/or Canada Revenue Agency to determine the full implications of receiving
BSP
funding (such as taxable income, Scientific Research and Experimental Development Tax Incentive Program (SR&ED) tax credits)
SR&ED
credits or other similar federal or provincial tax credits expected to be received within the project scope/timeline for project activities will be considered to be other government assistance. This may require PrairiesCan to reduce its funding to maintain the level of government assistance at 50%.
Where possible, exclude
SR&ED
eligible costs from your application.
Repayment terms
After project completion, there is a 1 year grace period, followed by equal monthly payments over 5 years.
Interest-free; no security/collateral will be taken.
There is no penalty for early repayment.
Funding decisions
Within approximately 90 business days of receiving a complete funding application. Refer to
PrairiesCan’s service standards
.
One successful
BSP
project per organization per calendar year.
Application process
The
BSP
program uses a 2-stage continuous intake approach to which applicants may apply at any time:
Expression of interest (EOI)
: This abbreviated on-line application form lets applicants describe the proposed project purpose, rationale, eligibility, activities and budget. We use it to determine if a project should advance to a full application.
Full application
: If a project advances to the second stage, we invite the applicant to provide more details about their project through our online portal.
We encourage you to
contact us
prior to submitting an
EOI
. A PrairiesCan officer would be happy to answer your questions.
How to submit an expression of interest
Go through the
BSP
EOI
help guide
before submitting. We strongly recommend that you download or bookmark the guide now for reference while completing the
EOI
form.
Prepare the following documents to submit along with your
EOI
:
financial statements for the past 2 years, as well as interim financial statements for at least the last 6-month period
other supporting information (such as business plan, pitch deck) detailing your organization, how it meets the high-growth definition, and details about the proposed project
confirmation of other funding sources (such as bank statements, unused portion of lines of credit, official letters of intent, funding agreements, signed term sheets):
funding provided by applicant:
current bank statements detailing existing cash balances or the unused portion of lines of credit
funding provided by third-party sources:
official letters of confirmed/conditional funding
funding agreements
signed term sheets
Note that we will not accept the following as confirmed funding:
forecasted revenues from future activities
accounts receivables
commitments to raise equity or to obtain future bank financing
Scientific Research & Experimental Development (SR&ED) credit receivables
After submitting an expression of interest
EOIs
with the strongest merit and alignment with program objectives, priority areas and significant economic benefit, will be invited to complete a full application and undergo detailed assessment. Within 30 days of the
EOI
submission, PrairiesCan will invite selected applicants to submit a full application for funding. If you have not been contacted, your project will not be considered further.
Application review
Applications will be evaluated on their ability to achieve the
BSP
objectives and on their relative strengths in the following areas:
market potential
management capability
financial capacity
economic benefits
technology readiness (technology commercialization projects only)
departmental/regional priorities
If undergoing a detailed assessment, PrairiesCan will request:
business plan (if not already submitted)
forecasted income statements and cashflow for the duration of the project
detailed breakdown of project costs
disclosure of pre-existing disbursements to third parties or senior executives
Although PrairiesCan may engage companies directly on outstanding questions or issues, applicants are advised to submit a complete and thorough application.
Not all applications undergoing a detailed assessment will receive an offer of funding.
A technical assessment may be conducted by National Research Council’s Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC-IRAP) for projects using novel technology.
Clean Growth Hub will be consulted on projects related to clean technology and clean resources.
Elements of a strong proposal
comprehensive and well-written business plan
independent market assessment and/or evidence of unmet market demand
clearly defined market size and opportunity
direct competitors identified and assessed
detailed description of both the applicant organization and project management team
credible financial statements accompanied by logical and reasonable financial projections
demonstrated financial capacity to execute the project and the ability to repay
clear alignment with at least 1 priority area
significant economic benefits/outcomes supported by reasonable assumptions and rationale
well-defined
IP
strategy (if applicable)
clear explanation as to how the productivity or efficiency savings will enable the company to grow and expand (if applicable)
Contacts
For additional
BSP
information, contact us directly at 1 of our
regional offices
by calling
1-888-338-9378.
BSP
is part of the national
Regional Economic Growth through Innovation
program.
Get inspired by reading
some of our success stories
.
Page details
Date modified:
2024-06-07