Alberta Indigenous Clean Energy Initiative
On this page
Overview
Example project types
Who can apply
Get in touch
Partners
Overview
Indigenous communities have shown real leadership in renewable energy generation and energy efficiency projects in Alberta, but getting projects off the ground can be difficult. It’s often hard to know even where to start.
To simplify the process, we’ve teamed up with key partners to create the Alberta Indigenous Clean Energy Initiative (AICEI).
AICEI
helps First Nations and Métis communities get the most out of their investments in clean energy projects.
We’re open to discussions at any stage. Depending on where your project is at, we can help you:
identify your community’s priorities;
explore potential opportunities and partnerships;
develop your capacity to lead clean energy projects;
see your projects through to completion;
provide funding to support your project;
identify other funding sources that are a better fit.
We also regularly host webinars, so even if you just want to learn a bit more about clean energy, just let us know and we’ll be sure to let you know whenever they occur.
The
AICEI
is funded through
the Strategic Partnerships Initiative
, led by Indigenous Services Canada.
Example project types
The
AICEI
can support renewable energy generation or energy efficiency projects that are led by, or for the benefit of, First Nation and Métis communities in Alberta. These include:
Renewable energy generation
Solar
Wind
Hydropower
Energy storage
Geothermal
Biomass
Hydrogen
Energy efficiency improvement
Building upgrades and retrofits
Efficiency measures such as lighting and appliances
Energy audits
Capacity building
The initiative helps communities build capacity and develop projects.
Workshops, events and networking
Clean energy champion development
Skill development and training
Pathfinding
Project development supports
Community energy planning
Feasibility and diagnostic studies
Environmental evaluations and permitting
Market assessments
Business and financial project planning
Project design
Who can apply
First Nations, Métis Settlements, Métis and non-status Indigenous communities
Indigenous community-owned businesses and development corporations
Tribal Councils, Treaty Organizations, Métis Settlements General Council, Métis Nation of Alberta, or similar Indigenous community-driven organizations
Not-for-profit organizations that have Indigenous clean energy, economic development, or a related focus within their mandates
Get in touch
Interested in discussing your ideas? We always start things off with a conversation so there’s no need to fill out any forms. Simply
contact us by email
to share more about your community’s vision, idea or project, or to just be notified of our next webinar. Our program team is looking forward to hearing from you.
Partners
Our partners include:
Indigenous Services Canada (ISC)
Natural Resources Canada (NRCan)
Indigenous Clean Energy (ICE)
Alberta Indigenous Relations
Alberta Indigenous Opportunities Corporation (AIOC)
Page details
Date modified:
2023-09-01