Clean Energy for Rural and Remote Communities Program
The Clean Energy for Rural and Remote Communities (CERRC) program is currently accepting applications under the following streams:
Biomass heating, district heating, and combined heat and power systems
Please note:
Due to high demand, remaining funding for this stream is limited, eligible projects received will be added to a waitlist, should funds become available:
Research, Development, and Demonstration projects
Please note:
Due to high demand, CERRC has paused application intake for the following streams:
Capacity Building projects
Deployment of renewable energy projects
If you are unsure which stream your application fits within, please submit a contact form below and we will be in touch to discuss. Please continue to visit this website for further updates.
We are committed to improving access to federal funding and resources in Indigenous, rural and remote communities for clean energy projects.
To learn more about the types of projects    we’re funding, who can apply and how we’re working, visit
Clean energy for Indigenous, rural and remote communities
.
Get in touch to apply for funding
Contact us to share more about your community’s vision, idea or project. You can submit a contact form through the link below or
request an application by email
.
Submit a contact form
There is no deadline to apply.
We review applications on an ongoing basis subject to available funds.
On this page
About the program
Changing how we work to support community  priorities
Previously funded projects
Background about diesel use in rural and remote  communities
About  the program
The Clean Energy for Rural and Remote Communities (CERRC) program provides funding for renewable energy and capacity building projects to reduce the reliance on fossil fuels for heating and electricity in Indigenous, rural and remote communities across Canada.
In support of the clean energy transition, the program’s objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and fossil fuel use by increasing the use of local renewable energy sources and related energy efficiency measures. This creates environmental, social and economic benefits to support healthier and more sustainable communities.
Investing in clean energy solutions in Indigenous communities is a  small but important link to energy security, reconciliation, self-determination  and economic development for Indigenous Peoples.
Changing how we work to support community priorities
To improve community access to federal clean energy funding  and resources, multiple departments are changing how we work.
What  does this mean for applicants?
One application that you can submit for either CERRC or the Northern Responsible Energy Approach  for Community Heat and Electricity program (REACHE), available on the
Clean energy for Indigenous, rural and remote communities
website
Simplified project reporting
More flexible Terms + Conditions
An Indigenous Council to guide our work starting  in fall 2022
On-going conversations and information sessions  to improve program delivery and work towards Indigenous Climate Leadership
Previously funded projects
Launched in 2018, the CERRC program was allocated $220 million over 8 years to reduce diesel reliance for heat and power in Indigenous and remote communities. CERRC received an additional $233 million over 5 years through Budget 2021. The program has supported 111 projects nationally, including capacity building initiatives, large capital projects, innovation projects, and bioheat projects. Want to learn more about what type of projects CERRC has funded?  Check out the list of
currently funded projects.
NRCan’s
Indigenous Off-Diesel Initiative
supports 14  Indigenous clean energy champions and their communities and has provided over  $28 million for community clean energy planning, engagement, and implementing  projects. This initiative is delivered in collaboration with the
Indigenous  Clean Energy Social Enterprise
and the
Pembina Institute
.
Background  about diesel use in rural and remote communities
Rural and remote communities that are not connected to the North  American electricity grid often use diesel and fossil fuels to generate heat and  power. Using fossil fuels for heat and power is expensive and has an impact on  the environment, including air quality.
Energy efficiency and conservation measures can help to reduce overall  demand for fossil fuels, create warmer, healthier homes and provide savings to  communities. Cost savings can enable communities to invest in other  community-driven priorities. Local renewable energy sources such as wind,  solar, hydro or biomass can replace diesel, reduce environmental and health  impacts, and create local economic opportunities.
Find out which  energy sources are used by rural and remote communities by visiting the
Atlas  of Canada - Remote Communities Energy Database
.
Definition of rural and remote communities
Rural  community
is defined as a community connected to the North American electrical grid and not connected to the North American piped natural gas network, with a population of fewer than 5,000 people and a population density of less than 400 people per square kilometre. A permanent or long-term (5 years or more) settlement with at least 10 dwellings.
Remote  community
is defined as a community not currently connected to the North American electrical grid nor to the piped natural gas network and which is a permanent or long-term (5 years or more) settlement with at least 10 dwellings. Includes all Northern Remote Communities.
Resources
If you  are a project lead or team member working with NRCan on clean energy projects  in Indigenous, rural and remote communities,
email  us to join
the regular networking events at the
Clean Energy Circle
.
Learn more
about renewable energy and energy efficiency projects that are
currently funded by CERRC
.
Related links
Findings: The Clean Energy Transition for Utilities Serving Remote Communities
Contact Us
Sign-up
for our
mailing list
to receive program updates  and learn about upcoming events. Email us at
nrcan.remoteenergy-energieadistance.rncan@canada.ca
Stay connected
Follow us
on social media and join the conversation using #cleanenergy #indigenouscleanenergy
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Date modified:
2024-12-23