Start your business journey!
Contact us
Core Startup Program
Futurpreneur is here to empower aspiring young entrepreneurs on their journey to success! Our Core Startup Program provides loan financing and up to two years of mentorship, with added access to tools and networking opportunities across Canada.
Ready to learn more?
Jannine Rane
Zing | Toronto, ON
Our offering
From business plan to business success. We offer you the tools to get your startup off the ground. If you’re 18 – 39 and ready to launch a business, we’re here to help you.
Accessible financing
A flexible, equity-free startup business loan of up to $75,000, including up to $50,000 in financing from BDC.*
*conditions apply
Mentorship
Receive up to two years of 1:1 hand-matched mentorship.
Resources
From our Rock My Business workshop series to our various business planning tools, gain access to the resources you need to start and succeed.
Networking opportunities
Engage with a national network of entrepreneurs, leaders, and community organizations at a range of virtual and in-person  entrepreneurial events.
Meet a Futurpreneur
Futurpreneur gave me not only the funds to start my business – the company showed me support, guidance and direction. Having a mentor and all the connections I’ve made so far is helping me build my business in a healthy and consistent way.
Paulo Trindade
Paulo’s Cake Shop
|
Toronto, Ontario
The Futurpreneur loan […] I received when I first started Twenty One Toys, not only did it allow us to start our first production run of empathy toys, it gave me the confidence I needed to believe that even though I was a toy designer with no prior business experience, I was also allowed to be an entrepreneur.
Ilana Ben-Ari
Twenty One Toys
|
Toronto, Ontario
Futurpreneur provides financial support, but the team cares about me beyond my startup. They invested and encouraged me to succeed, and for that I am very grateful.
Nathon Kong
La Maison Nathon Kong
|
Montreal, Quebec
We looked at Futurpreneur’s system and asked ourselves…how we could continue to be involved with the organization? That’s when I thought about having all our franchisees go through the program. It’s a really great resource, they get the mentorship that’s going to be local to them and it was kind of a no-brainer.
John Sparrow
Go Oil
|
Winnipeg, Manitoba
Are you eligible for the Core Startup Program?
We offer young entrepreneurs up to $75,000 in startup loan financing and up to two years of mentorship.
See full eligibility criteria here
You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident aged 18 to 39
You must be between 18 and 39 years old when you submit your application.
You must demonstrate some training or experience in your field
You must be able to demonstrate that you have experience working in your industry and related to your business idea.
You cannot be a contractor or an agent
To apply you cannot be an agent or contractor working for another already-existing business.
What's new
Blog
“You can kick a** with [some] help”: Five entrepreneurship lessons from Debbie Shing and Ashwini Bhaskar
By Dan Zaiontz | October 27, 2023
Blog
From the Ground Up: Behind the Scenes of Knix and Mejuri’s Success
By Futurpreneur | April 28, 2023
View more
Become a community partner
Does your organization help young entrepreneurs launch businesses? Find out how we can partner with you to provide financing, mentoring and other resources to help them succeed. Call or email us today!
Send us a message
Take a look at our other offerings
Ready to start your entrepreneurial journey?
Sign up here to get connected with a dedicated team member to learn more about Futurpreneur’s loan with mentorship and resources.
Alternatively, if your complete business plan and 24 month cash flow are ready for submission to Futurpreneur,
click here
to get started!
"
*
" indicates required fields
General info
Name
*
First name
Last name
Contact info
Email
*
Phone
*
Province
*
City
*
Language Preference
*
English
French
Offering info
In addition to our core startup programs, we have tailored programs for Black and Indigenous entrepreneurs.
Please let us know if you would be eligible for these programs:
I identify as Black
Yes
No
I identify as Indigenous
Yes
No
Sign up for emails
YES! Please sign me up to receive events, opportunities, inspirational news about fellow small business owners and more…
I confirm that I am age 18-39
*
Please note to be eligible for a Futurpreneur loan with mentorship you must submit your full application (including business plan and cash flow) before your 40th birthday.
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads?
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads GCLID
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads?
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads GCLID
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads?
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads GCLID
FAQ
Can’t find the answers you’re looking for?
See our full FAQs.
See our FAQ page
At what stage of my business planning can I apply to Futurpreneur?
Futurpreneur offers free resources and tools to help entrepreneurs at every stage of business development. If you are in the idea or R&D phase of forming your company, our free tools and resources can help guide you through the process of developing your
business plan
,
creating your cash flow
, and more. We’re here to help move your business forward!
In order to apply to Futurpreneur’s Startup Program and secure financing, your company must be in the pre-startup or startup stage (i.e., beyond the Idea or R&D phase).
• By
pre-startup,
Futurpreneur means the company is in the process of launching and will make its first sales ideally within the next few months
.
• By
startup,
we mean existing companies that have had less than a year of significant sales, i.e., sufficient revenues for the applicant(s) to pay themselves.
Can I access either Futurpreneur funding or mentoring separately?
Working with a mentor is one of the requirements of our financing program, and you must receive our financing in order to be matched with a mentor. We do not offer these options separately.
I am over 39. Can I still qualify for Futurpreneur’s Startup Program?
Our startup program is aimed at entrepreneurs between the ages of 18 and 39 exclusively. If you are about to turn 40, you may be eligible for the program provided your full application is completed before your 40th birthday.
If you are 40 years of age or older, unfortunately, you are not eligible for our program.
Financing terms & fees
Futurpreneur repayment terms & fees
Up to $25,000 with a term over five years.
Interest is charged at CIBC’s prime rate + 3%. (Note that if CIBC’s prime rate exceeds 6%, the interest rate charged is capped at 9%. If CIBC’s prime rate exceeds 9%, the interest rate charged will be charged at CIBC prime rate.)
Interest-only payments for the first year.
Principal repayments are made in equal monthly installments together with interest, over the remaining four years.
No penalty for early repayment.
A one-time loan management fee of 1% of the total loan amount is charged at time of disbursement
The above points reflect current Futurpreneur loan terms; the exact terms of each entrepreneur’s loan are clearly defined in their loan agreement.
BDC repayment terms & fees
Up to $50,000 with a term over five years.
Interest is charged at BDC’s current floating base rate + 1.65%.
Interest-only repayment in the first year, commencing from the BDC loan authorization date. You may prepay all or any part of the outstanding principal, however, BDC must receive the interest owing to the time of repayment, together with an indemnity equal to three months’ interest on the principal prepaid.
Once a year (non-cumulative), on the anniversary date of the loan authorization date, you may repay 15% of the principal outstanding without indemnity. BDC charges a $50 processing fee, which is deducted from the initial loan disbursement.
Please
contact your local BDC office
for the BDC Floating Base Rate.