Strategic Partnerships Initiative
The Strategic Partnerships Initiative (SPI) helps Indigenous communities participate in complex economic opportunities.
New funding for clean energy projects
An additional $300 million is available until 2027 for clean energy projects in Indigenous, rural and remote communities across Canada. To learn more about the types of projects we're funding, who can apply and how we're working, visit
Clean energy in Indigenous, rural and remote communities
.
On this page
About the program
Who can apply?
Deadline
How to apply?
Indigenous Business Navigator
About the program
The Strategic Partnerships Initiative (SPI) provides a way for federal partners to coordinate their efforts, reduce administrative burden and pool resources in support of Indigenous communities. This approach fills gaps in other funding programs that might create a barrier to Indigenous involvement in economic opportunities. SPI initiatives can span multiple years, have regional economic impacts and serve multiple communities.
SPI is led by Indigenous Services Canada (ISC) and shared by a growing network of federal partners, including:
Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada
Atlantic Canada Opportunity Agency
Canada Economic Development for Québec Regions
Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs Canada
Canadian Northern Economic Development Agency
Employment and Social Development Canada
Environment and Climate Change Canada
Federal Economic Development Agency for Southern Ontario
Federal Economic Development Initiative for Northern Ontario
Fisheries and Oceans Canada
Health Canada
Impact Assessment Agency of Canada
Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada
National Defence
Natural Resources Canada
Pacific Economic Development Canada
Parks Canada
Prairies Economic Development Canada
Public Services and Procurement Canada
Transport Canada
Women and Gender Equality Canada
SPI promotes partnerships between federal and non-federal groups in key economic areas. This allows SPI to support opportunities that are not eligible for other federal funding.
SPI supports investments in:
economic readiness
economic infrastructure
expanding viable businesses
pre-feasibility and feasibility studies
environmental diagnostics and evaluations
community economic development planning
skills development and training
$14.45 million is budgeted for SPI funding per year.
Who can apply?
Federal departments leading SPI initiatives determine any application processes which vary depending on the initiative's objectives. Those eligible to participate in SPI initiatives include:
Indigenous businesses, organizations, partnerships and joint ventures
Indigenous communities and local governments
academic institutions
provinces and territories
Deadline
There is no deadline for this program as this is an ongoing process.
How to apply?
Eligible recipients do not apply directly for funding. Federal partners work with Indigenous communities to identify opportunities to bring to SPI's interdepartmental investment committee for consideration. The committee vets and then supports the co-development of chosen initiatives.
Application processes may vary depending on the initiatives' objectives. For more information, a list of current initiatives and contact information in your area, please email
IPS-SPI@canada.ca
.
Contact us
Send an email to the SPI Secretariat:
IPS-SPI@canada.ca
Economic Business Opportunities Branch
Strategic Partnerships Initiatives Directorate
Indigenous Services Canada
10
rue
Wellington
Gatineau
QC
K1A 0H4
Indigenous Business Navigator
ISC has launched the Indigenous Business Navigator service, to assist Indigenous individuals, businesses, organizations and communities in accessing Government of Canada programs and services that could support their business and economic-development needs.
With this one-window approach, whether you are an Indigenous business owner looking to access capital, or a First Nation looking for help with community economic development planning, the Indigenous Business Navigator will help you find the information and support you're looking for. To get help finding the programs and services you need, please contact
navigateur-navigator@sac-isc.gc.ca
.
Related links
The Atikamekw of Opitciwan launch a mechanical tree harvester training program
Centre of Expertise on Impact and Benefit Agreements: an important ally
Pacific Commercial Fisheries Diversification Initiative (Facebook)
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2023-07-28