Innovative Solutions Canada
About us
Our stories
Funded projects
Contact us
Our open funding opportunities
Subscribe to our newsletter below or follow us on
LinkedIn
to stay up to date on new funding opportunities.
Closed funding opportunities
Other open funding opportunities
Broadband network transitions
Closing date:
March 27, 14:00 Eastern Time
IDEaS
Identifying biological agents
Closing date:
March 27, 14:00 Eastern Time
IDEaS
Combat-ready medical diagnostics
Closing date:
March 27, 14:00 Eastern Time
IDEaS
Extended communication with Earth and space systems
Closing date:
March 27, 14:00 Eastern Time
IDEaS
Don't miss any new funding opportunities
If you don't see an open funding opportunity that matches up to what you do, make sure to subscribe to our newsletter.
No spam guaranteed
, only program specific news.
View privacy notice
Unsubscribe
Our two streams
Are you an
innovator?
Through the Innovative Solutions Canada program, we're partnering with eligible Canadian small businesses and facilitating the early development, testing and validation of prototypes.
Get funds to solve challenges
We set it, you solve it.
Compete for funding to prove the feasibility of your solution and build a prototype.
Learn more
about the Challenge stream for innovators
Get funds to test your innovation
We buy it to test it.
Apply for funding to test your innovation in real-life settings.
Learn more
about the Testing stream for innovators
Are you working for
government?
Develop innovative novel solutions, products, technologies or services by challenging small businesses, or test innovations in your own operational setting with the opportunity to buy the commercialized innovation.
Challenge innovators
You set it, they solve it.
Set the parameters of your challenge. Outline your desired essential outcomes. Your organization funds the development of the innovation.
Learn more
about the Challenge stream for government
Test innovations
Discover it and test it.
Formerly the Build in Canada Innovation Program (BCIP). Choose from Canada's top innovations not yet available on the market.
Learn more
about the Testing stream for government
Featured stories
Unleashing innovation with Kraken Robotics
Kraken Robotics is a marine technology company specializing in advanced mine countermeasures and mine hunting solutions.
Making waves with Shearwater
Shearwater Research is a company that specializes in designing and manufacturing high-tech scuba diving computers.
See more stories
Report a problem
Date modified:
2025-02-17