Canada – South Korea co-innovation 2025 call for proposals
On this page:
1. Introduction
2. Application deadlines
3. Sectors of focus
4. Eligibility requirements
5. Funding
6. Application process
7. Contacts
8. Registration
1. Introduction
Working together, the governments of Canada and South Korea aim to foster and support collaborative industrial research and development (R&D) projects with a high potential for commercialization. This call for proposals is open to organizations from Canada and South Korea who wish to form project consortia to perform collaborative projects focused on developing innovative products, processes, or technology-based services in advanced manufacturing, clean technologies, digital technologies, health and biosciences, and quantum technologies sectors.
2. Application deadlines
Canadian registration deadline:
March 19, 2025
Canadian expression of interest deadline:
April 2, 2025
International consortium project proposal deadline:
June 25, 2025
3. Sectors of focus
Projects must focus on 1 or more of the following themes:
advanced manufacturing
, including smart factory and smart manufacturing, advanced materials, automotive manufacturing, robotics, and automation
clean technologies
, including water and wastewater management, smart grid and energy storage, battery-related technologies, renewable energy, hydrogen technologies, and carbon management, etc.
digital technologies
, including artificial intelligence for industry, cybersecurity, smart vehicle, and smart cities, etc.
health and biosciences
, including pharmaceuticals, digital health, medical devices, and mobile health, etc.
quantum technologies
, including quantum computing, quantum communication, quantum sensing, cryptography, imaging, security, and quantum materials, etc.
4. Eligibility requirements
To be considered for funding, applicants must form a project consortium and develop a collaborative research and development (R&D) project that meets the following criteria:
4.1 Canadian SME applicant
The Canadian small or medium‑sized enterprise (SME) applicant must:
be an incorporated, profit-oriented small or medium-sized business in Canada
have 500 or fewer full-time equivalent employees
pursue growth and profit by developing and commercializing innovative, technology-driven new or improved products, services, or processes in Canada
have a differentiated and protectable technology with commercial potential in global markets
have sufficient working capital (e.g. revenue, investment, etc.) and resources to undertake a multi-year R&D collaboration and commercialize the results
be committed to significant growth through international market expansion
Preference may be given to SME applicants who:
have a minimum of
15 full‑time
equivalent employees
have commercialized one or more products domestically or internationally
have greater than
$500,000 CAD
in annual revenue
4.2 Consortium
The project consortium must include at least:
1 incorporated Canadian SME
1 eligible Korean partner
The parties listed above must be unrelated parties (i.e. no direct, indirect, beneficial, or constructive ownership interest between these parties)
The project partners that form the consortium must agree on a plan addressing intellectual property rights and intent to commercialize.
4.3 Project
The project must focus on co-development, adaptation, and/or validation of an innovative product, process, or technology-based service that has:
commercial potential and outcomes that can be realized within
2-3 years
upon completion of the project
a civilian (non-military) purpose
The project must demonstrate:
a complementary technological contribution from each partner
an obvious advantage and added value resulting from the cooperation between the participants
a balanced contribution between project partners and countries (i.e. no more than
70%
of the effort contributed by any one partner or country)
4.4 South Korea eligibility requirements
Please consult the South Korean
call for proposals announcement
for South Korea eligibility requirements.
5. Funding
Eligible project participants in collaborative projects selected through this call for proposals may receive funding from their respective national funding bodies. Funds will be provided in accordance with the applicable laws, regulations, rules, and procedures established by the relevant national funding bodies, country, and jurisdiction.
Non‑eligible project participants (e.g. universities, research institutes and participants from other countries) are welcome to participate on a self‑funded basis or as sub‑contractors to funded participants, according to each country's funding regulations.
Additional country-specific funding parameters are outlined below.
5.1 Canadian funding
In Canada, this call for proposals is offered through the
Canadian International Innovation Program
(CIIP) - an international innovation R&D funding program offered by Global Affairs Canada in partnership with the National Research Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance
Program (NRC IRAP).
NRC IRAP is responsible for delivering this call for proposals and for managing any resulting funding agreements.
Canadian SMEs
Eligible Canadian SMEs may receive up to 50% reimbursement of eligible project costs up to a maximum total funding amount of
$600,000 CAD
over
12 to 36 months.
NOTE:
Canadian SME applicants must be eligible for funding as NRC IRAP clients before they can be considered for funding through this call for proposals. For more information on NRC IRAP eligibility and becoming an NRC IRAP client, please contact NRC IRAP at
1-877-994-4727.
NOTE:
Canadian SME applicants may apply to more than one NRC IRAP call for proposals simultaneously. However, NRC IRAP may limit the number of funded projects per applicant. Canadian SME applicants who are applying to more than one opportunity or who have ongoing NRC IRAP projects should speak to their NRC IRAP representative for more information.
5.2 South Korean funding
In South Korea, this call for proposals is offered through the Korea Institute for Advancement of Technology (KIAT). KIAT is responsible for the delivery of this call for proposals and the management of any resulting funding agreements.
Please consult the South Korea
call for proposals announcement
for South Korean funding parameters.
6. Application process
Each project partner
seeking funding must submit all required documents to their respective national funding body and meet its due diligence process requirements. Failure to do so, at any point or for any reason, may cause the entire collaborative project application to be considered incomplete or ineligible and render the entire project consortium ineligible for funding through this call for proposals.
Application processes and evaluations will be performed independently by each national funding body in accordance with their national and institutional laws and regulations. Once each national funding body has evaluated the submitted applications, a final joint project selection will be performed.
Information on respective application processes follows below:
6.1 Canadian application process
The Canadian application process has four phases:
Step 1:
Registration
Step 2:
Expression of interest
Step 3:
International consortium project proposal
Step 4:
National funding body proposal and funding agreement
Step 1: Registration phase
Each Canadian SME applicant must register using the
Register
button at the bottom of this page. Basic information about the applicant and the organization will be required upon registration.
NRC IRAP will review registrations for this call for proposals and contact applicants if more information is required. Qualifying applicants will proceed to the next phase and be invited to submit an expression of interest form.
Step 2: Expression of interest (EOI) phase
During this phase, each Canadian SME applicant seeking funding must submit an expression of interest (EOI) form outlining basic information on the applicant and the collaborative project.
While completing the EOI form, each Canadian SME applicant is encouraged to contact their NRC IRAP representative to discuss their project idea and receive guidance on preparing their submission.
It is recommended that applicants submit the EOI as early as possible. EOIs will be evaluated by the applicant's NRC IRAP representative and the NRC IRAP International Office. Qualifying applicants will be invited to submit the more detailed international consortium project proposal in collaboration with their project partners. The lead Canadian SME applicant will be provided all templates needed to submit an international consortium project proposal (ICPP).
Step 3: International consortium project proposal (ICPP) phase
During this phase, all project partners must work together to complete and submit an ICPP package.
In this call for proposals, the Canadian ICPP application package consists of:
an
International Consortium Project Proposal
outlining the:
project consortium
collaborative project
expected outcomes
expected project cost and calendar
a
draft international consortium agreement
containing descriptions of the following:
roles and responsibilities of each consortium member
project management framework
division of intellectual property rights
confidentiality and publication agreements, and liability clauses
Canadian ICPP applications will be evaluated by an NRC IRAP evaluation team including the applicant's NRC IRAP representative and the NRC IRAP International Office. Only Canadian participants of selected project proposals will be invited to proceed to the final national funding body proposal and funding agreement stage.
Step 4: National funding body proposal and funding agreement phase
During the national funding body proposal and funding agreement phase, all eligible project partners work independently to complete funding proposals and sign legally binding funding agreements with their respective national funding body. Canadian SME applicants will work with their NRC IRAP representative to prepare an NRC IRAP funding proposal, go through the regular IRAP due diligence process and prepare the contribution agreement.
6.2 South Korea application process
For information related to application stages, requirements, instructions, ICPP application packages and funding agreements, please consult the South Korean
call for proposals announcement
.
7. Contacts
For questions, concerns, or for more information, please contact the appropriate call for proposals representative listed below:
7.1 Canadian contact
Small and medium-sized enterprises
Qing Yu
NRC IRAP Korea National Program Coordinator
National Research Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance Program
Qing.Yu@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
7.2 South Korea contact
Youngmin Jeong
Researcher, International R&D Cooperation Team
Korea Institute for Advancement of Technology (KIAT)
wjddudals00@kiat.or.kr
8. Registration
Canadian SME participants must be registered NRC IRAP clients. If not already an NRC IRAP client, Canadian SMEs must contact
1-877-994-4727
to determine if they might be eligible for support through the NRC IRAP.
To begin the application process, the lead Canadian applicant must register for this opportunity by clicking the
Register
button.
If there is no
Register
button visible below this line, it means the call for proposals has closed. Please contact the Contact listed or the NRC IRAP International Office at
IRAP.International.PARI@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
for more information.
Page details
From:
National Research Council Canada
Date modified:
2025-02-18 00:00:00