Entrepreneurship and Business Development (EBD)
The Entrepreneurship and Business Development (EBD) Program is one of two program contribution streams of the
Northern Indigenous Economic Opportunities Program (NIEOP)
. EBD assists Indigenous entrepreneurs and Indigenous businesses through project-based support for activities that help facilitate the establishment or growth of Indigenous businesses.
CanNor may delegate the delivery of this program to regional Service Delivery Partners (SDPs) in order to increase local and regional access to the program.
The objective of
EBD
is to:
Increase the number of viable Indigenous businesses and to provide a supportive business environment for Indigenous people in the territories
Promote entrepreneurship in Indigenous communities by improving access to local and regional economic opportunities across various sectors
Enhance access to capital for Indigenous businesses in the territories.
CanNor Approved Service Delivery Partners (SDPs)
Applicants can connect directly with any of the CanNor approved SDPs listed below for assistance with EBD project funding applications.
Nunavut (Qikiqtaaluk)
Kakivak Association
info@kakivak.ca
or
867-979-0911
Nunavut (Kivalliq)
Kivalliq Inuit Association
Contact – Kivalliqinuit
or
867-645-5725
Northwest Territories -
Metis Dene Development Fund
admin@mddf.ca
or 867-873-9341
Yukon -
däna Näye Ventures
Contact - däna Näye Ventures (dananaye.com)
or
867-668-6925
For More Information
For any questions regarding EBD, or to request an application form, please email
Operations@cannor.gc.ca
or reach out to one of our
regional offices
.
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2023-09-25