Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative (RAII)
On this page
Who can apply for RAII funding?
How to apply
Strengthening AI innovation and adoption in Canada
Artificial  intelligence (AI) technologies have the potential to transform businesses and  make them more competitive internationally. As countries around the world join  the race to develop and use AI, Canada is already a leader in this field.
For  this reason, the Government of Canada is making strategic investments to  provide businesses across the country with the tools they need to adopt AI and  to develop new technologies and processes that integrate AI.
Canada's
regional development agencies (RDAs)
, including the Canadian Northern Economic Development Agency (CanNor), are delivering $200 million through the Regional Artificial  Intelligence Initiative (RAII) to help bring new AI technologies to  market and speed up AI adoption in sectors across the country.
Through  RAII, RDAs will support projects that help businesses turn their ideas into real-world  solutions for Canadians and compete globally. CanNor received $4.1 million to  support relevant projects in the territories. If your business or organization  is exploring innovative projects that leverage or develop AI components, you  are encouraged to apply.
Who can apply for RAII funding?
Businesses such as partnerships, social enterprises, incorporated  companies, corporations, co-operatives, and Indigenous-owned businesses.
Not-for-profit organizations such as sectoral/industry  associations, post-secondary educational institutions, etc.
Indigenous-led not-for-profits and organizations.
Municipal, provincial, or territorial  governments, including crown corporations.
How to apply
If you have a project idea and would like to submit an application for funding under RAII, please fill out the
Application  Form
.
Upon receipt, projects submitted are reviewed by regional economic development officers, and applicants may be invited to submit a full application. At that time, a generic application and any program specific applications may be provided.
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2024-11-20