Start your business journey!
Contact us
Indigenous Entrepreneur Startup Program (IESP)
Futurpreneur empowers aspiring young Indigenous entrepreneurs on their journey to success. The Indigenous Entrepreneur Startup Program (IESP) provides start-up loan financing and up to two years of mentorship, supported by an Indigenous team, offering access to tools and networking.
Ready to learn more?
Deanne Hupfield
Entrepreneur | Toronto, ON
Our offering
The IESP is designed and operated by an Indigenous team that understands the barriers to success faced by young and aspiring Indigenous entrepreneurs. IESP provides startup loan financing and up to two years of mentorship, supported by an Indigenous team, offering access to tools and networking opportunities across Canada.
Inclusive financing
A flexible equity-free startup business loan of up to $75,000* available to Indigenous entrepreneurs (including those on reserve).
*conditions apply
Mentorship
Receive up to two years of 1:1 mentorship from an experienced business leader.
Resources
From Futurpreneur’s Ohpikiwin workshop series, designed to strengthen financial empowerment through an Indigenous lens, to our helpful business planning workshops and tools.
Networking opportunities
Engage with a national network of Indigenous entrepreneurs, leaders and Indigenous-led community organizations at a range of entrepreneurial events.
Celebrating our entrepreneurs
Sean Rayland shares the story of Red Rebel Armour, an Indigenous-led streetwear brand
Meet a Futurpreneur
I owe Futurpreneur a huge amount of credit for Enn Taant’s success from the idea stage to launch and beyond. They have provided not only financial support but also avenues to meet fellow entrepreneurs, mentors and many important business connections.
Carolann Robyn Cruz
Enn Taant
|
Winnipeg, Manitoba
Having capital at the beginning was paramount to get us off the ground. With Futurpreneur’s funding and support in developing business plans and financial models, we were able to meet consumer demand and keep our product thriving in the market…Futurpreneur makes room for passion.
Moirae Choquette
Tomato Wheels
|
Edmonton, Alberta
With the help of Futurpreneur, we were able to kickstart our business, increase our marketing efforts, and are scaling our operation…We’ve increased our capacity. We’re getting new machines…We’ve already hired new employees.
Sean Rayland-Boubar
Red Rebel Armour
|
Winnipeg, Manitoba
Are you eligible for the Indigenous Entrepreneur Startup Program?
See here for the top level criteria you have to meet to be eligible or click the button to see the full list:
See full eligibility criteria here
You must self-identify as Indigenous
Indigenous entrepreneurs who self-identify as members of other communities are also welcome to apply for support from Futurpreneur.
You must be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident aged 18-39
When you apply you must be within the stated age range in order to be eligible.
You are looking to launch a business or have been operating your business for less than two years
In order to be eligible, your business must not yet be operational or can only have been operating full time for 24 months or less.
Visit our community pages
Learn what we've been up to and connect with the community!
Indigenous & Northern communities
Deanne Hupfield
Entrepreneur | Toronto, ON
What's new
Blog
First Nations woman, Holly Atjecoutay, leads Futurpreneur’s Indigenous Entrepreneur Startup Program
By Guest Blogger | June 2, 2022
Blog
This Young, Indigenous Entrepreneur Grew a New Business out of COVID-19
By Futurpreneur | June 12, 2020
Blog
National Indigenous History Month
By Futurpreneur | June 3, 2021
View more
Some of our trusted partners
Futurpreneur is proud to partner with Indigenous organizations across Canada to support young Indigenous entrepreneurs.
Alberta Indian Investment Corporation (AIIC)
Clarence Campeau Development Fund
Nishnawbe Aski Development Fund
Ulnooweg Development Group
CESO/SACO Indigenous Services
Louis Riel Capital Corporation
Waubetek Business Development Corporation
Métis Financial Corporation of BC
Indian Business Corporation
Saskatchewan Indian Equity Foundation Inc
Two Rivers Community Development Centre
Become a community partner
Does your organization help young Indigenous entrepreneurs launch businesses? Find out how we can partner with you to provide financing, mentoring and other resources to help them succeed. Call or email us today!
Send us a message
Take a look at our other offerings
Ready to start your entrepreneurial journey?
Sign up here to get connected with a dedicated team member to learn more about Futurpreneur’s loan with mentorship and resources.
Alternatively, if your complete business plan and 24 month cash flow are ready for submission to Futurpreneur,
click here
to get started!
"
*
" indicates required fields
General info
Name
*
First name
Last name
Contact info
Email
*
Phone
*
Province
*
City
*
Language Preference
*
English
French
Offering info
In addition to our core startup programs, we have tailored programs for Black and Indigenous entrepreneurs.
Please let us know if you would be eligible for these programs:
I identify as Black
Yes
No
I identify as Indigenous
Yes
No
Sign up for emails
YES! Please sign me up to receive events, opportunities, inspirational news about fellow small business owners and more…
I confirm that I am age 18-39
*
Please note to be eligible for a Futurpreneur loan with mentorship you must submit your full application (including business plan and cash flow) before your 40th birthday.
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads?
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads GCLID
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads?
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads GCLID
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads?
This field is hidden when viewing the form
Google Ads GCLID
FAQ
Can’t find the answers you’re looking for? See our general FAQs.
See our FAQ page
What is the Indigenous Entrepreneur Startup Program?
The Indigenous Entrepreneur Startup Program (IESP) is a tailored program equipped with tools, resources, financing and mentorship to support the needs of young Indigenous entrepreneurs across the country while launching their full-time business in the first two years of operations.
Why does Futurpreneur have a specific program supporting Indigenous entrepreneurs?
Indigenous entrepreneurs face barriers and realities that are only specific and relevant to Indigenous communities. We recognize and acknowledge that equity deserving groups should have access to applicable and culturally appropriate programming and services in order to empower success.
How is the Indigenous Entrepreneur Startup Program different from your other programs?
Our IESP team is comprised entirely of Indigenous professionals from all over Canada. As we are part of the Indigenous community, we understand the Indigenous clients we work with and the realities they encounter. All of our learning content is created and delivered by an Indigenous team, incorporates Indigenous worldviews and histories, and is made accessible to all Indigenous clients wherever they may be.
We have also made adjustments to our credit matrix for equitable accessibility to our financing and mentorship program for Indigenous entrepreneurs, recognizing that many Indigenous individuals experience credit barriers and disadvantages due to colonialism.
Can an Indigenous entrepreneur apply to the Futurpreneur Side Hustle Program?
Yes, an Indigenous entrepreneur can apply to our Side Hustle Program. If you are between the ages of 18-39, are a Canadian citizen or permanent resident, and for the next 12 months your side business will remain your secondary source of income, we welcome you to apply to our Side Hustle Program.
Who is eligible for the Indigenous Entrepreneur Startup Program?
Any self-identifying Indigenous entrepreneur, in their first two years of business, between the ages of 18-39, with a Futurpreneur eligible business model, and a qualified credit standing is eligible for the Indigenous Entrepreneur Startup Program.
To participate in this program, how is a person determined to be Indigenous?
As we aim to not create additional barriers for Indigenous entrepreneurs, while also recognizing that Indigenous identity is individual and multi-faceted, we determine Indigenous identity through self identification. Intersectionality is also welcomed (e.g., those who identify as Black and Indigenous are eligible for this program).
Financing terms & fees
Futurpreneur repayment terms & fees
Up to $25,000 with a term over five years.
Interest is charged at CIBC’s prime rate + 3%. (Note that if CIBC’s prime rate exceeds 6%, the interest rate charged is capped at 9%. If CIBC’s prime rate exceeds 9%, the interest rate charged will be charged at CIBC’s prime rate.)
Interest-only payments for the first year.
Principal repayments are made in equal monthly installments together with interest, over the remaining four years.
No penalty for early repayment.
A one-time loan management fee of 1% of the total loan amount is charged at the time of disbursement
The above points reflect current Futurpreneur loan terms; the exact terms of each entrepreneur’s loan are clearly defined in their loan agreement.
BDC repayment terms & fees
Up to $50,000 with a term over five years.
Interest is charged at BDC’s current floating base rate + 1.65%.
Interest-only repayment in the first year, commencing from the BDC loan authorization date.
You may prepay all or any part of the outstanding principal, however, BDC must receive the interest owing to the time of repayment, together with an indemnity equal to three months’ interest on the principal prepaid.
Once a year (non-cumulative), on the anniversary date of the loan authorization date, you may repay 15% of the principal outstanding without indemnity.
BDC charges a $50 processing fee, which is deducted from the initial loan disbursement.
Please
contact your local BDC office
for the BDC  Floating Base Rate.