Financial support for technology innovation through NRC IRAP
Fuel your innovation
If you're a small or medium‑sized Canadian business pursuing technology‑driven innovation, you may be eligible for financial support from the National Research Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP). We provide this funding to eligible firms under our technology innovation projects and youth employment strategy programs.
NRC IRAP provides funding to support research and development projects at various stages of the innovation cycle. In 2018‑2019, NRC IRAP was mandated to expand its support to include an increased funding threshold of up to $10 million for larger research and development projects. This increased funding support will make it easier for small and medium‑sized Canadian businesses to access the support they need to grow and expand their companies.
Working as an extension of traditional NRC IRAP support, the additional funding for larger research and development projects is targeted toward firms that will have demonstrated to the program the ability to grow rapidly and significantly. These firms will be identified by NRC IRAP with the objective to help recipients of this increased funding threshold achieve transformative growth within 5 years of completing their project and, in so doing, significantly benefit Canada's economy.
Am I eligible for financial support?
If you meet the following criteria, connect with NRC IRAP by calling
1-877-994-4727
to find out if your business is eligible for NRC IRAP support:
you are an incorporated, profit-oriented small or medium-sized business in Canada
you have 500 or fewer full-time equivalent employees
you plan to pursue growth and profit by developing and commercializing innovative, technology-driven new or improved products, services or processes in Canada
To assist us in undertaking preliminary due diligence of your firm to be considered for NRC IRAP support, please have available:
a business plan or pitch deck
a copy of your company financials
resumes or biographies for each member of the management team and technical team on staff
What happens next?
If we determine that NRC IRAP support could benefit your development and growth strategies, we will refer you to an industrial technology advisor (ITA).
Understanding your business
Your ITA may meet with you in person to understand your business in more detail, including your business strategy, the issues you face, opportunities for growth and your plans for the future. This information will help the ITA develop a diagnostic to identify perceived gaps and recommend strategies for addressing them.
Developing a project proposal
Following your ITA's assessment of your business and proposed project, they may invite you to develop a project proposal for financial support through NRC IRAP. We will assess your proposal within three months, taking into consideration:
the project's technical aspects and potential impacts on your business
your business, management, and financial capacity
your assessed potential to achieve expected results
your commercialization plan
the overall market and commercialization opportunity
the anticipated benefits to Canada
If successful, you'll receive the financial contribution to share the costs of your R&D project activities, and you will need to submit monthly reimbursement claims to NRC IRAP. Your ITA will support you throughout your project.
Contact us
Call us toll-free at
1-877-994-4727
to learn more about
NRC IRAP
.
Please note the NRC is committed to providing a respectful and harassment-free workplace. No inappropriate behaviour, aggression, harassment, or foul language towards our employees will be tolerated. All conversations with anyone behaving in this manner will be immediately terminated.
Share your feedback
We want to provide you with the best possible service. Follow the
NRC IRAP feedback process
to let us know how we can improve.
From:
National Research Council Canada
Date modified:
2023-12-20