Environmental Employability Pathways
Receive up to $15,000 in Wage Funding For Your Next Hire
In partnership with the Government of Canada, ECO Canada is currently accepting applications to a newly released employer wage funding program for small and medium sized businesses.
Program Status:
Open to Candidates
Host Employer: Closed
(Estimated Time: 1 minute)
Apply as Youth Candidate
(Estimated Time: 1 minute)
Approved Employers Can Receive Employee Wage Funding Of Up To $15,000
About the Program
The Environmental Employability Pathway program is an employment readiness program which aims to help all youth (age 15 to 30) to navigate through the labour market and to successfully transition into sustained employment.
ECO Canada, in partnership with the government of Canada’s Youth Employment and Skills Strategy (YESS) Program, will work with institutions and employers across Canada to fund work for youth facing barriers, including:
Young women
Visible minority youth
lndigenous youth
Youth living with a disability
Official language minority communities (OLMC) and populations
The program will help them develop their employability skills and obtain work experience that will prepare them to find and keep employment. This program aims to help youth facing barriers to obtain work experience, in part-time or full-time roles up to 40-hours per week.
Read the Program Overview
Program Eligibility
Youth Candidate must meet the following criteria:
Between 15 and 30 years of age (inclusive);
A Canadian citizen, or permanent resident or a protected person as defined by the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act.
Legally entitled to work in Canada; and
Legally entitled to work according to the relevant provincial/territorial legislation and regulations
What to Expect as a Youth Participant
You will gain experience focusing on developing skills, leadership and teambuilding in the Canadian Environmental sector including resource sectors, environmental assessment post-secondary educational institutions, Indigenous scientific, environmental, and technology associations.
Each project participant will learn key job skills to obtain and maintain/retain employment, and adapt and succeed at work through business skills, communication skills, teamwork, problem-solving skills, leadership skills, organization skills, motivation, self-confidence and ability to work under pressure.
What to Expect as an Employer
Employers will hire candidates as they normally would but can get pre-approved for ECO Canada funding.
If you already have a candidate in mind, they can apply for the program too. Applicants will receive payment towards the salary once both the employer and candidate have been approved.
About ECO Canada
As the steward for the Canadian Environmental workforce across all industries, ECO Canada offers employment programs that stimulate environmental career pathways, skill development, business growth, workforce support and workforce advancement through wage and training funding.
To date we have distributed over $90M in wage and training subsidies and helped to fill 10,000 + job placements!
About ECO Canada
As the steward for the Canadian Environmental workforce across all industries, ECO Canada offers employment programs that stimulate environmental career pathways, skill development, business growth, workforce support and workforce advancement through wage and training funding.
To date we have distributed over $90M in wage and training subsidies and helped to fill 10,000 + job placements!
Get Started With Your Application​
Please contact pathways@eco.ca with any questions.
Employer: Closed
(Estimated Time: 1 minute)
Apply as Youth Candidate
(Estimated Time: 1 minute)
Getting Your designation
How to Become an EP Employer
Take the Eligibility Quiz
Confirm alignment to ECO Canada Values
Pay Your EP Employer Application Fee
Complete EP Employer Application
• Document key organizational information related to HR practices and commitment to employee training
• Agree to uphold the EP Code of Ethics
Approved as Pre-Qualified EP Employer Status
Access to limited HR Resources/Benefits
Submit list of EPt/EP/EP Auditor eligible employees
• Pay Application Fees with 15% Discount
• Book ECO 101 Session
EPt/EP/EP Auditor Applicants Apply
• Board Approval Process
• Pay Membership Fees with 20% Discount
Upgrade to Qualified EP Employer Status*
EP Employer Seal and Certificate Received
Access to Full Benefits
*A portion of eligible employees within the organization need to receive their EPt, EP, EP(CEA) or EP(EMSLA) certification to receive Qualified EP Employer Status.