Call For Project Proposals
Information and application guidelines for current and closed calls for project proposals.
Ahead of the curve starts here. Join us.
At DIGITAL, we are building a future where Canadian organizations are global industry leaders and where Canadians benefit from the prosperity and growth that comes from creating novel technology products and services that are meaningful across the country and around the world.
Since our start in 2018, we have supported
95 projects
with a total investment value of $390M. These projects have convened over 500 partners comprised of the best in business, academia, community and government to solve some of industry and society’s biggest challenges – better and faster than any single organization could do on its own.
With co-investment from the Government of Canada through the Global Innovation Cluster program; Employment & Social Development Canada; and the Pan-Canadian Artificial Intelligence Strategy; Canada’s National Quantum Strategy; and the Province of British Columbia, DIGITAL is mobilizing break-through technology innovation and talent initiatives that:
Support
health and wellness
by providing more equitable access to care, improving health outcomes and enabling sustainable healthcare systems in Canada and around the world.
Advance
environmental health
and strengthening Canada’s natural resources sectors to succeed in a prosperous, low carbon economy.
Build a highly skilled and connected Canada by supporting
talent and capacity building
initiatives that provide unobstructed pathways to digital jobs. This includes working with remote and rural communities and Indigenous partners to establish digital connectivity, transform to clean energy and cultivate digital leaders within their communities.
Capture economic potential of made-in-Canada
AI technology solutions
through technology commercialization, talent development and creating global advantage.
Accelerate the adoption of Canadian
quantum technologies
by having domestic and international partners demonstrate proof-of-value of quantum applications in real-life scenarios.
Harness data-driven digital innovation to help grow
housing production capacity
.
Focusing investment on industry challenges and social issues that impact all Canadians.
Review the Call for Proposals below to learn about the opportunities, including specific program and co-investment information.
Funds available for each program are limited and have a competitive application and selection process. All applications will be reviewed and evaluated on a continuous-intake basis. While there is no specific due date for submissions, we retain the right to close application intake at any time if funds are anticipated to be fully committed. We will endeavor to keep applicants informed as projects are selected by providing updates to the respective program pages.
To sign-up for informational webinars and keep up to date on call for proposal announcements, please subscribe to our newsletter.
Subscribe to our newsletter
Call for Proposals in CareerTech
THIS CALL IS CURRENTLY CLOSED
A $10M investment from Canada’s Global Innovation Clusters program will result in more than $20M of new investment in the advancement of innovative CareerTech digital solutions in Canada.
Learn More
Call for Proposals in AI Skills & Adoption
THIS CALL IS CURRENTLY CLOSED
A $5M investment from the Commercialization Pillar of the federal Pan-Canadian AI Strategy will result in more than $10M of new investment in
the development of applied AI talent and adoption of innovative AI technologies.
Learn More
Call for Proposals to Grow Housing Production Capacity in B.C.
THIS CALL IS CURRENTLY CLOSED
A $9M investment from the Government of British Columbia will be used to harness data-driven digital innovation to help grow housing production capacity.
Learn more
Call for Proposals in Quantum Technologies
THIS CALL IS FULLY COMMITTED
DIGITAL and NGen Canada are leveraging funding from Canada’s National Quantum Strategy to result in more than $30M of new investment in key categories of quantum technologies.
Learn more
Call for Proposals in Technology Leadership (Cycle 6)
THIS CALL IS FULLY COMMITTED
A $65
M
investment from the federal Global Innovation Clusters program will be competitively distributed
across
10-15 new projects. This
will result in more than
$200
M
of new investment in
the development of novel and innovative
digital technology solutions
in health and natural resources.
Learn more
Call for Proposals in Horizon AI – Technology Commercialization Stream
THIS CALL IS FULLY COMMITTED
A $
20
M
investment from the Commercialization Pillar of the federal Pan-Canadian AI Strategy (PCAIS)
will be competitively distributed across 10-15 projects. This will result in more than $60
M
of new investment to drive the commercialization and adoption of made-in-Canada AI solution
s.
Learn more
Call for Proposals in Horizon AI – Global Advantage Stream
THIS CALL IS FULLY COMMITTED
A $5M investment from
the Commercialization Pillar of the federal Pan-Canadian AI Strategy (PCAIS)
will be competitively distributed to
create a portfolio of
projects
that help build
Canada’s presence in emerging market opportunities.
Learn more
Call for Proposals in Talent & Capacity Building
THIS CALL IS CURRENTLY CLOSED
Investments from Employment & Social Development Canada’s Sectoral Workforce Solutions Program (SWSP), Skills for Success Program (SFS) and Community Workforce Develop Program (CWDP) will be competitively distributed towards talent and workforce development initiatives within our Digital Learning Lab.
Learn more
Frequently Asked Questions
Is it possible for an organization to submit more than one application?
Yes. You may submit multiple applications to a program or between programs. However, you would need to ensure if your organization is the proposed project lead and/or if there is overlap in the organizations you’re engaging as project partners that there is capacity to be able to take on multiple projects in parallel should they be selected.
What does TRL mean?
Technology Readiness Level. TRLs are a measure for understanding and evaluating the maturity of an evolving technology innovation. Based on a 9-point scale, these are defined by the Ministry of Innovation (ISED) as https://ised-isde.canada.ca/site/innovation-canada/en/technology-readiness-levels. Not sure what TRL your project is at? The Government of Canada has developed a
TRL assessment tool
to help you narrow it down.
Is the funding an equity investment or grant?
Neither. DIGITAL’s funding is under a co-investment model that is based on costs incurred. This is non-dilutive funding and DIGITAL does not an equity investment take any equity. In addition, unlike a grant, our investment commitment is made under a multiparty contract that sees us involved in the project oversight in particular in relation to commercial and ecosystem impact. The contract outlines commitments that must be met for the funding to continue. Project participants are encouraged to have cash flow that would cover the first year of costs and it is expected that each project participant will be able to carry their costs anywhere from 3-6 months to account for claims payment review and processing timelines.
Can the lead organization cover the balance of the investment amount or is financial participation required from all consortium members?
The total project costs (cost of delivering the project) is the aggregate costs that the project will incur to fulfil the defined scope by all partners (before any external funding sources (including DIGITAL) are considered). The project partners may negotiate intra-payments between partners to reduce their net costs which will be outlined in a project’s multiparty contract. Note SME due diligence is part of the application process.
Can a consortium member contribute 100% in kind (or portion of) as part of a project?
Yes in some instances this can occur depending upon the consortium member’s role in a project. Note that the definition of in-kind in a project is viewed as a donation and ineligible for co-investment.
Is approval required for anticipated foreign costs prior to proposal submission or prior to finalizing the master project agreement?
Approvals will typically not be conducted during the proposal application process. During contracting DIGITAL will work with those consortium members who have foreign costs identified. The request and approval process with ISED usually takes 2-3 weeks and requires a demonstration that work cannot be done in Canada or by a Canadian resource. Once the MPA is in place, if during the project there is a foreign cost need identified you are encouraged to contact DIGITAL
prior
incurring the costs in order to secure a pre-approval decision on co-investment eligibility.
What criteria will be used to evaluate my project?
Criteria and weighting used to evaluate project submissions are found in our
Program Guides
.
Can the target customer/client be a non-Canadian entity?
Yes. We encourage the active participation of international customers/clients as this enables a project team to work towards their solution’s global market commercial readiness. The caveat being non-Canadian organizations are ineligible for co-investment unless they have operations in Canada. We also recommend that you review the Co-Investment Guide of the Program you are interested in to learn more about associated Eligible and Ineligible costs.
Is it necessary to have at least one academic/research institution partner in a project?
Recognition as an eligible consortium for proposal application varies by program. Please consult the respective
Program Guides
for detailed eligibility criteria.
How much funding is available per project?
There is no maximum project size. The maximum amount of DIGITAL’s co-investment in a specific project will be determined when the project is selected. Funds available from DIGITAL are limited and DIGITAL’s co-investment is subject to availability of funds. For more information, read our
Program Guides
.
What is the maximum duration for projects?
Projects typically range in duration from 12 months to 36 months. Project completion deadlines are found in our
Program Guides.
What kinds of costs will be funded by DIGITAL?
Eligible project costs for DIGITAL co-investment are those that are incremental, reasonable and directly relate to project execution and achievement of the project objectives. DIGITAL provides co-investment only to eligible Members in good standing. International organizations (offshore companies and research organizations without a registered business presence in Canada) may also participate but any project activity undertaken by these organizations are not eligible for DIGITAL co-investment, unless otherwise pre-approved as a foreign cost for an eligible Member. For more information on Co-investments, please refer to our
Co-investment Guidelines.
Is there any matchmaking support for companies that would be interested in joining a consortium that is open to new members?
Yes. If there is a current project at DIGITAL that you are interested in joining or would like an introduction to an organization in our member list to explore collaborative opportunities within the ecosystem,
Contact Us
.
Digital Technology Supercluster
X
What are you looking for?
Search
Become a Member
Join DIGITAL and define how you will change the world today.
Explore Calls for Projects
Our Canada-wide Call for Proposals is OPEN! These co-investment funds focus on industry challenges and social issues that impact all Canadians.
Visit our Blog
Sharing news, insights and stories related to digital innovation, our community and the digital economy.