Regional Economic Growth through Innovation
The Regional Economic Growth through Innovation (REGI) program creates the right conditions to start and grow businesses in Atlantic Canada. Through REGI, the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency (ACOA) is helping businesses and non-profit organizations develop a strong, dynamic and inclusive economy.
Follow:
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
LinkedIn
Instagram
ACOA Business Information Services
ACOA programs
Forms
Contact us
FAQ
The REGI program offers two options for funding:
Business Scale-up and Productivity
Regional Innovation Ecosystems
Business Scale-up and Productivity
We help businesses speed up their growth so they can be more productive, compete on the world stage and reach new markets.
REGI can help you reach the next level! Our repayment contributions are unsecured and interest-free. Your agreement will explain all the details including the schedule and conditions for repayment.
You can use this funding to:
scale up and expand
make the most of new technologies
improve productivity
create new products and find new markets
Regional Innovation Ecosystems
ACOA funds non-profit organizations that support businesses at each stage of development. By doing this, we create strong and inclusive regional networks to fuel growth and innovation.
We also focus on making business support networks stronger for under-represented groups. These include women, Indigenous peoples and young entrepreneurs, among others.
We provide non-repayable contributions for organizations such as:
strategic clusters and groups
that help businesses build on regional strengths to scale up and bring new ideas to market
business accelerators and incubators
and others that support entrepreneurs, start-ups and innovative companies with high-growth potential
other innovation-oriented organizations
that help businesses be more productive, compete globally, attract new investments and recruit talent
Who can apply?
Business Scale Up
This option funds businesses, including:
sole proprietorships
partnerships
social enterprises
incorporated companies
corporations or co-operatives
Indigenous-owned businesses
all other types of enterprises
It also funds non-profit organizations that offer services to businesses.
Regional Innovation Ecosystems
This option funds non-profit organizations such as:
post-secondary educational institutions
accelerators and business incubators
angel networks
social enterprises
a group of eligible recipients such as an industry association or consortium
a municipality and all other municipal-type organizations
community-owned Indigenous businesses
We know it can be harder for Indigenous businesses to succeed. If you're an Indigenous youth or woman, or if you lead a community-owned Indigenous business, you could get extra support. Contact us to see if you qualify for more funding or flexible repayment options.
How to apply
Contact your nearest ACOA office
to discuss your project and then complete and submit the
Application for financial assistance.
Contact us today!
Need help? If you have a business idea but don’t know where to start,
ACOA Business Information Services
can help. It's your one-stop information shop.
Call 1-888-576-4444.
Or contact us by email:
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Prince Edward Island
Newfoundland and Labrador
Outside Atlantic Canada
Nova Scotia
New Brunswick
Prince Edward Island
Newfoundland and Labrador
Outside Atlantic Canada
Hours of operation: Monday to Friday, 8 am to 5 pm (Atlantic time)
Grants and Contributions Awarded
Did you know that you can search the
Open Government Portal
to see previous successful applications for funding? Use the keyword ”REGI” in the search field to see recently approved recipients.
Impact stories
A.F. Theriault
produces diverse types of vessels designed and built in the predominantly francophone community of Meteghan River, Nova Scotia to serve Canada's unique, expansive coastline and our network of coastal marine communities.
In May 2022 Moncton-based
Atlantic Ballet Atlantique Canada
(ABAC) will celebrate its 20th anniversary. In just two short decades, the only professional ballet company in Atlantic Canada has toured original creations throughout Canada, the U.S. and Europe.
A new company’s first few years are challenging, with unexpected obstacles and setbacks around every corner. For
Wabanaki Maple
, a newly established New Brunswick business and ACOA client, having to navigate the COVID-19 pandemic along with other growing pains was the most unexpected challenge of all.
Page details
Date modified:
2024-11-28