Northern Isolated Community Initiatives (NICI) Fund
On this page
About NICI
Who should apply?
Eligibility
For more information
About NICI
Canada's northern food sector has significant economic growth potential that offers opportunities for increased local production, job creation, and sustainable development that benefits northern and Indigenous communities.
The Northern Isolated Community Initiatives (NICI) Fund supports food and agriculture businesses, as well as other public and private organizations. Investments from NICI support new and existing food initiatives aimed at strengthening and diversifying economic activity in the North. Projects that address food security in Indigenous communities or with other vulnerable people will be given priority.
Delivered by three of Canada's
Regional Development Agencies
(RDAs); the
Canadian Northern Economic Development Agency
(CanNor), the
Canadian Economic Development for Quebec regions
(CED) and the
Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency
(ACOA), NICI provides nearly $15 million over three years for community-led projects that benefit local and Indigenous food production systems, with an emphasis on innovative and practical solutions to increase food security across the North. In the territories, the NICI Fund has a budget of $9 million in financial assistance to support a variety of projects through the following streams:
Support to Businesses and Entrepreneurs
This stream provides funding to businesses seeking to start or expand production, processing and distribution of food using practical approaches.
Support to Northern Food Systems and Ecosystems
This stream supports initiatives that strengthen local and regional food supply chains.
Support for Northern Food Innovation
This stream provides funding for Indigenous projects, community-led initiatives and other projects that deploy innovative technologies, techniques, or approaches to food systems to improve local or regional food security and/or sovereignty.
Who should apply?
NICI supports food and agriculture-related businesses, as well as other public or private organizations, with an emphasis on ensuring fair access to funding for Inuit Nunangat, which includes the Inuvialuit Settlement Region (northern Northwest Territories), Nunavut, Nunavik (northern Quebec), and Nunatsiavut (northern Labrador). It  also services all regions in the territories. Investments strengthen new and existing food-related initiatives with the goal of improving and diversifying economic activity in the territories.
Eligibility
NICI is open to a wide-variety of organizations, including not-for-profit groups, academic institutions, industry associations, local or Indigenous governments, and for-profit businesses. It is also open to provincial and territorial governments.
Eligible activities should focus on ideas that strengthen northern food systems, improve local food production, reduce barriers to food access, provide skills training and capacity building for local and Indigenous food producers, or that focus on innovation.
For more information
If you have a project or an idea you would like to discuss, contact your
CanNor regional office
to explore possible funding options.
Find out more on the
Northern Food Innovation Challenge
funded through an earlier version of the NICI program.
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2025-03-06