Indigenous Off-Diesel Initiative
About the Initiative
How the Initiative works
Energy Champion cohorts
Eligibility
Contact us
Related information
The application process is now closed
About the Initiative
The Indigenous Off-Diesel Initiative (IODI) is a renewable energy training program that supports Indigenous-led climate solutions in remote Indigenous communities that use diesel or fossil fuels for heat and power.
IODI was designed based on 18 months of engagement with Indigenous rights holders, Indigenous organizations, and stakeholders. The Initiative supports a cohort of participants, called Energy Champions, in their journey from training through to project planning and development. Energy Champions work closely with renewable energy leaders and their communities to plan and develop projects that reflect their community’s priorities.
How the Initiative works
The selected Energy Champions navigate through the phases of the Initiative (details about the phases are provided on the
Cohort 1
and
Cohort 2
webpages). Energy Champions have access to:
Funding for community renewable energy training, planning, and projects
Participation in the 20/20 Catalysts program, run by the
Indigenous Clean Energy (ICE) Social Enterprise
Unique opportunities for collaboration and peer-to-peer learning
Support from local and national renewable energy mentors
Energy Champion cohorts
IODI Cohort 1 – Launched in 2019
Cohort 1 is comprised of 14 Energy Champions and their community teams. This cohort was carried out as part of
Impact Canada
and collaboratively delivered by
ICE
Social Enterprise, the
Pembina Institute
, and the Canadian federal government.
Learn more about the Energy Champions from Cohort 1 and their projects
.
IODI Cohort 2 – Launched in 2022
Cohort 2 is comprised of 10 Energy Champions and their community teams. This cohort is being carried out as part of
Wah-ila-toos
and is collaboratively delivered by
ICE
Social Enterprise and the Canadian federal government.
Learn more about the Energy Champions from Cohort 2 and their projects
.
Eligibility
IODI is designed for individuals from remote communities in Canada that are interested in advancing renewable energy projects in their communities.
Applicants must reside in, or have strong and ongoing ties to, a remote Indigenous community or group of remote Indigenous communities in Canada.
Priority will be given to applicants whose communities do not already have federal funding for community-scale renewable energy or energy efficiency projects.
Not eligible:
Remote Indigenous communities involved in projects that will result in grid connection or connection to other sources of power (such as a major hydro project) within 5 years of the application deadline.
Individuals and communities who have already participated in the first cohort of IODI.
Contact us
If you have any questions about the Initiative, please contact
indigenousoffdieselinitiative-initiativeautochtonereduirediesel@nrcan-rncan.gc.ca
Related information
Clean energy in Indigenous, rural and remote communities
Indigenous Clean Energy (ICE) Social Enterprise
Impact Canada Initiative
Pembina Institute
Page details
Date modified:
2023-10-30