Funding for Indigenous-led awareness and education projects for cleaner transportation and clean fuels
Status:
Call for proposals with continuous  intake open until March 31, 2025, or until funds are fully allocated.
Introduction
Areas of focus
Who can apply
How to apply
Changing how we work
Contact us
Additional funding
Transitioning to net zero
To meet  Canada’s ambitious  target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions 40–45 percent below 2005 levels  by 2030 and reaching  net zero by 2050, Canada’s economy will need to be powered by clean energy  sources and driven by low- and zero-emission transportation. On the path to  net-zero, Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) is committed to building meaningful  partnerships and ensuring Indigenous peoples benefit from funding opportunities  that can contribute to our shared fight against climate change.
To help  address challenges related to awareness, understanding, and confidence in  zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs), lower-carbon trucks, and clean fuels, NRCan is piloting  a continuous intake call for proposals for Indigenous-led projects that address  these barriers to adoption.
This  call for proposals has a notional
funding allocation of up to $4.5 million
,  and projects must be completed by no later than March 31, 2026
.
Areas of focus
Zero-Emission Vehicles Awareness
Support for projects that aim to increase awareness,  knowledge, and public confidence in:
zero-emission vehicles (ZEV) in medium and heavy-duty vehicle classes
low-emitting medium- and heavy-duty vehicles (trucks, delivery vans) including retrofits,       repowers, and conversions
NOTE:
Funding for light-duty (personal) zero-emission vehicle projects and public charging and refuelling technologies projects is now fully committed, so no additional projects related to this area can be funded under this pilot
Clean Fuels Awareness
Support for projects that increase knowledge and  understanding about the opportunities, benefits, and considerations related to  adopting clean fuels in industrial operations, across the economy, and for  consumers. Clean fuels can include:
clean hydrogen and renewable natural gas
biofuels such as cellulosic ethanol
renewable diesel
synthetic fuels and sustainable aviation fuels
Examples of project activities
developing in-person or online education and/or awareness events, such as test drive  opportunities
developing curriculum  or training material
outreach  and awareness campaigns
creating web-based  resources
developing  in-person professional training or industry-led skills training
increasing  knowledge of charging & refuelling and/or clean-fuel options and  technologies
Who can apply
an Indigenous  community or governing body
a First  Nation (band or council under the Indian Act)
a tribal council
an Inuit  organization
another  form of government or representative organization; or
a for-profit  or not-for-profit business or organization that clearly demonstrates  ownership and controlling interests by Indigenous groups
The term “Indigenous” is understood to include  Inuit, Métis, First Nations, or any combination thereof.
How to apply
You can request a full application package by email at
ila-sda@nrcan-rncan.gc.ca
. Please include the following information in your email request:
name
organization
location
preferred method of  contact: phone, email, video call
phone Number
email
Interested, but want to discuss  your idea with program staff before applying?
Our program staff can help you determine whether your project is a  fit for this funding opportunity. Email us at
ila-sda@nrcan-rncan.gc.ca
to request the
Project  Idea Description Form
to get started. Please be sure to include the contact  information listed above.
We strive to respond to all email requests within 5 business days.
Funding applications will be reviewed on an ongoing, first-come,  first-served basis over the course of this continuous intake pilot call for  proposals.
Our team is looking forward to hearing from you!
Changing how we work
To make funding more accessible to Indigenous  communities, we’re committed to changing the way we work and improving  community access to federal funding and resources.
Community-centred approach
Flexible  timelines
Meet you  where you’re at
Remove  barriers & increase access
Engagement  & dialogue
Need help? Contact us
For additional information, email
ila-sda@nrcan-rncan.gc.ca
Need additional funding
Find out more about federal
Indigenous  Climate Funding
programs.
Date modified:
2024-12-23