SMART Cluster’s 8th call for proposals – advanced manufacturing
1. Sector of focus
2.	Application deadlines
3.	How to apply
4.	Related tools and events
5.	Project funding
6.	Canadian funding eligibility
7.	Contact
SMART
, the Eureka cluster focused on advanced manufacturing, has launched their 8th annual call for collaborative research and development project proposals.
SMART is a flexible,
industry-driven
Eureka Cluster program
whose aim is to promote innovative, collaborative, international and
close-to-market
R&D projects in advanced manufacturing.
1. Sector of focus
Advanced manufacturing in the following areas:
advanced manufacturing processes
customer-based
manufacturing
digital, virtual and efficient companies
intelligent and adaptive manufacturing systems
person-machine
collaboration
sustainable manufacturing
2. Application deadlines
Project outline (optional but recommended):
January 16, 2025 11:00 am CET
Full project proposal:
April 10, 2025 11:00 am CEST
3. How to apply
To apply, applicants must follow these
instructions to submit their proposal
.
SMART projects must have at least 2 partners from 2 different Eureka countries, have a duration of 2 to 3 years, and the budget must be balanced among participants/countries.
4. Related tools and events
SMART PO Proposers'Day
for project consortium building on
October 29-30, 2024
.
5. Project funding
Eligible project participants in collaborative projects selected through this call for proposals may receive funding from their respective national funding body. Funds will be provided in accordance with the applicable laws, regulations, rules and procedures established by the relevant national funding body, country, jurisdiction or program.
Each project participant should contact their national funding agency early in the process and follow their advice regarding national funding  applications in parallel to the proposal submission.
Project participants not eligible for funding from the National Research Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP) or their national funding body (e.g., universities, research institutes, and participants from other countries) are welcome to participate on a self-funded basis or as subcontractors to funded participants, according to each country's funding regulations.
6. Canadian funding eligibility
Canadian SMEs
In Canada, this call for proposals is offered through the National Research  Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP).  NRC IRAP funding is only available for eligible Canadian small or
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
. Project participants who are not eligible for funding are welcome to participate on a
self-funded
basis.
To be eligible for funding a Canadian SME applicant must:
be an incorporated,
profit-oriented
small or
medium-sized enterprise (SME)
in Canada
have 500 or fewer full-time equivalent employees
pursue growth and profit by developing and commercializing innovative,
technology-driven
new or improved products, services or processes in Canada
have a differentiated and protectable technology that could become competitive in global markets
have sufficient working capital (e.g., revenue, investment) and resources to undertake a
multi-year
R&D collaboration and commercialize the results
be committed to significant growth through international market expansion
Preference may be given to Canadian SME applicants who:
have a minimum of 15
full-time
equivalent employees
have commercialized one or more products domestically or internationally
have greater than
$500,000 CAD
in annual revenue
Note:
Canadian SME applicants must be eligible for funding as NRC IRAP clients before they can be considered for funding through this call for proposals. For more information on NRC IRAP eligibility and becoming an NRC IRAP client, please contact NRC IRAP at
1-877-994-4727
.
Note:
Canadian SME applicants may apply to more than one NRC IRAP funded call for proposals simultaneously. However, NRC IRAP may limit the number of funded projects per applicant. Canadian SME applicants who are applying to more than one opportunity or who have ongoing NRC IRAP projects should speak to their NRC IRAP representative for more information.
Other Canadian organizations
Other types of Canadian organizations may participate in SMART projects but need to secure funding from alternative sources or self-fund their project participation.
7. Contact
To learn more about Eureka's SMART cluster and this call for proposals, please visit the
SMART website
or contact Peter Bandas at
Peter.Bandas@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
.
Page details
From:
National Research Council Canada
Date modified:
2024-09-27 00:00:00