Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative (RAII) for Northern Ontario
Artificial intelligence (AI) is a powerful tool that has the potential to transform the economy across all industries in Canada. It holds tremendous economic potential in terms of commercialization, innovation, productivity and competitiveness, and has the potential to generate a range of social and environmental benefits for Canadians. The global race to scale up and adopt
AI
is on, and Canada is at the forefront of this technology. As part of Budget 2024, the Government of Canada has allocated $200 million to Canada's
regional development agencies
(RDAs) to help bring new
AI
technologies to market and help accelerate
AI
adoption in critical sectors such as agriculture, health sciences, manufacturing, mining supply and service and forestry.
The
Regional Artificial Intelligence Initiative (RAII)
will help bridge the gap between cutting-edge
AI
research and broader marketplace consumption with support spanning two pillars:
AI
productization and commercialization
– Support
AI
scale-ups address common challenges on their journey from lab prototypes to real-world applications, including securing growth capital, talent acquisition, data management, and navigating regulatory and business conduct frameworks.
Adoption of
AI
applications
– Support will address
AI
adoption lag among small and medium-sized enterprises. Support will focus on addressing challenges, such as skills gaps,
AI
integration complexities, and compliance with regulatory and industry standards.
Expected results
Projects supported through the RAII program will work towards achieving one or both of the following departmental results:
Businesses and organizations in Northern Ontario are investing in the adoption and commercialization of innovative technologies; and
Businesses in Northern Ontario are innovative and growing.
Eligible applicants
Eligible applicants are those commercializing and/or adopting
AI
solutions, including:
Incorporated small and medium-sized enterprises;
Incorporated not-for-profit organizations;
Indigenous (First Nation/Métis/Inuit) communities and organizations; and
Municipalities and municipal organizations.
Note: Retail and service-based businesses will not be considered under this program.
Eligible activities
Eligible activities include:
Pillar 1:
AI
Productization and Commercialization
Technology demonstration and/or commercialization of Canadian-made
AI
technologies and solutions.
Business and capacity development supporting the scale-up of developing
AI
technologies and
AI
-driven solutions.
AI
cluster and ecosystem capacity building to strengthen start-ups commercializing
AI
solutions.
Pillar 2:
AI
Adoption
Strategic
AI
adoption and integration of
AI
technologies and solutions that drive innovation, growth, and productivity.
Process re-engineering and capacity development for
AI
adoption.
Ecosystem support for small and medium-sized enterprises
AI
adoption.
Eligible costs
Eligible project costs must be reasonable, verifiable and in direct support of project activities and may include:
Capital costs: purchase of machinery, equipment, and facility upgrades;
Operating costs that are incremental and measurable;
Project-specific direct labour (e.g., wages and benefits) and subcontractor costs;
Professional advisory and technical services fees;
Preproduction (e.g., prototyping, technological development and commercial demonstrations);
Commercialization costs (e.g. costs related to intellectual property);
Training and talent development costs;and
Costs related to specialized services and materials (e.g., testing services, technical or innovation services, sector strategies in domestic markets).
Costs may be eligible on a retroactive basis for a 12-month period prior to the receipt of a funding application, but no earlier than April 16, 2024.
Ineligible costs
Certain activities and costs will not be considered eligible, including:
Regular maintenance and/or ongoing operation costs;
Regularly scheduled capital expenditures and/or asset replacement;
Refinancing of an existing debt;
Costs of amortization and goodwill;
Acquisition of land and buildings;
Basic research;
The purchase of any assets for more than the fair market value of the said asset; and;
Costs for which the applicant has entered into a legal commitment/incurred prior to the eligibility date.
Funding conditions
The actual contribution amount will be based on the minimum amount required to carry out the project.
Contributions to for-profit organizations will normally be:
Repayable - terms of repayment will be determined during the development of the contribution agreement;
Eligible for reimbursement up to 50% of capital costs and 75% for non-capital costs; and
All government funding (federal, provincial and municipal) for a project cannot exceed 50% of eligible capital costs and cannot exceed 75% of other eligible costs.
Contributions not-for-profit organizations will normally be:
Non-repayable;
Eligible for up to 75% of eligible costs; and
All government funding (federal, provincial and municipal) for a project cannot exceed 100% of eligible costs.
Other considerations
To be considered eligible, project benefits must accrue to
Northern Ontario
.
All eligible applicants must be legal entities capable of entering into legally binding agreements.
To be considered eligible for funding, applicants must demonstrate:
A sustainable business model normally supported by two (2) years of operations.
Financial capacity to complete the project and repay the contribution in full.
Managerial, technical, and operational capacity to achieve the project's stated objectives in a timely manner.
Market/industry demand (e.g., how the project addresses a significant gap in the market; global opportunity to be seized within Canada; and evidence that Northern Ontario is uniquely positioned to capture market share).
Potential for market growth, diversification of export markets and/or participation in global value chains.
A viable project plan with achievable outcomes, supported by verifiable cost estimates.
Commercialization projects are at
Technology Readiness Level (TRL)
7 or higher.
Where appropriate, legislative/regulatory requirements (
Artificial Intelligence and Data Act (AIDA)
), responsible and ethical use of artificial intelligence,
intellectual property management
, and
data security/privacy
considerations have been made, and where necessary, mitigations are in place.
Completing an application does not guarantee funding approval. All applications will be assessed as they are received. This will include a review of the business case and financial projections, the applicant's past results, and the identification of any issues that may impact the project's success. Approval may also depend upon funding availability.
How to apply
The application process is two phases and submitted through the FedNor self-service portal. It is recommended that you review both the
initial application
guide and the
detailed application
guide.
Please call
1-877-333-6673
to discuss your proposal with a
FedNor Officer
in your area or begin your
application process
.
FedNor is committed to providing effective, efficient and client-focused programs and services. Visit our
service commitment
to find out more.
Report a problem
Date modified:
2024-12-12