Canada - UK 2024-2025 multisector collaborative industrial research and development call for proposals
1. Introduction
2. Application deadlines
3. Sectors of focus
4. Eligibility requirements
5. Funding
6. Application process
7. Contacts
8. Registration
1. Introduction
Working together, the governments of Canada and the United Kingdom (UK) aim to foster and support collaborative industrial research and development (R&D) projects with a high potential for commercialization.
In January 2024, the governments of Canada and the United Kingdom (UK) signed a new Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) concerning cooperation over Scientific Research and Innovation with the aim to further strengthen bilateral cooperation that delivers excellence, and impacts across all fields of research and innovation.   This includes fostering and supporting collaborative industrial research and development (R&D) projects with a high potential for commercialization.
This call for proposals is open to organizations from Canada and the UK who wish to form project consortia to perform collaborative projects focused on developing innovative products, processes, or technology-based services in the area of life Sciences, digital and emerging, and sustainability and net zero technologies.
2. Application deadlines
Canadian registration deadline:
January 8, 2025
Canadian expression of interest deadline:
January 15, 2025
International consortium project proposal deadline:
April 16, 2025
3. Sectors of focus
We want to fund a variety of projects across a range of sectors and technology areas.  This includes topics of previous collaborative R&D calls between Canada and the UK. We would particularly welcome (but not restricted to) applications from the following areas which receive specific focus in the MoU:
Life sciences
, including engineering biology, biomanufacturing, and agricultural technologies
Digital and emerging technologies
, including, quantum, artificial intelligence, semiconductors
Sustainability and net zero
, including critical minerals, ocean sciences and technologies, clean energy technologies
4. Eligibility requirements
To be considered for funding, applicants must form a project consortium and develop a collaborative research and development (R&D) project that meets the following criteria:
4.1 Consortium
The project consortium must include at least:
1 Canadian incorporated, profit orientated small or medium sized enterprise (SME)
1 grant claiming UK registered SME
The parties listed above must be unrelated parties (i.e. no direct, indirect, beneficial or constructive ownership interest between these parties)
The project partners that form the consortium must agree on a plan addressing intellectual property rights and intent to commercialize.
Lead organisation
To lead a project your organisation must either be:
a Canadian incorporated, profit oriented small or medium sized enterprise (SME)
a UK registered business of any size
4.2 Canadian SME applicant
The Canadian small or medium‑sized enterprise (SME) applicant must:
be an incorporated, profit oriented small or medium sized business in Canada
have 500 or fewer full time equivalent employees
pursue growth and profit by developing and commercializing innovative, technology driven new or improved products, services or processes in Canada
have a differentiated and protectable technology with commercial potential in global markets
have sufficient working capital (e.g. revenue, investment etc.) and resources to undertake a multi-year R&D collaboration and commercialize the results
be committed to significant growth through international market expansion
Preference may be given to SME applicants who:
have a minimum of 15 full‑time equivalent employees
have commercialized one or more products domestically or internationally
have greater than $500,000 CAD in annual revenue
4.3 Project
The project must focus on co-development, adaptation, and/or validation of an innovative product, process, or technology-based service that has:
commercial potential and outcomes that can be realized within 2-3 years of completion of the project
a civilian (non-military) purpose
The project must demonstrate:
a complementary technological contribution from each partner
an obvious advantage and added value resulting from the cooperation between the participants
a balanced contribution between project partners and countries (i.e. no more than
70%
of the effort contributed by any one partner or country)
4.4 UK eligibility requirements
Please consult the
UK Innovation Funding Service (IFS) call for proposals announcement
for UK eligibility requirements.
5. Funding
Eligible participants in collaborative projects selected through this call for proposals may receive funding from their respective national funding bodies. Funds will be provided in accordance with the applicable laws, regulations, rules, and procedures established by the relevant national funding bodies, country, and jurisdiction.
Non‑eligible project participants are welcome to participate on a self‑funded basis or as sub‑contractors to funded participants, according to each country's funding regulations.
Additional country-specific funding parameters are outlined below.
5.1 Canadian funding
In Canada, this call for proposals is offered through the NRC's Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP). NRC IRAP is responsible for delivering this call for proposals and for managing any resulting funding agreements.
Canadian SMEs
Eligible Canadian SMEs may receive up to 50% reimbursement of eligible project costs up to a maximum total funding amount of $500,000 CAD over 12 to 24 months.
Canadian SME applicants may apply to more than one NRC IRAP call for proposals simultaneously. However, NRC IRAP may limit the number of funded projects per applicant. Canadian SME applicants who are applying to more than one opportunity or who have ongoing NRC IRAP projects should speak to their NRC IRAP representative for more information.
Note: Canadian SME applicants must be eligible for funding as NRC IRAP clients before they can be considered for funding through this call for proposals. For more information on NRC IRAP eligibility and becoming an NRC IRAP client, please contact NRC IRAP at
1-877-994-4727
.
5.2 UK funding
In the UK, this call for proposals is offered through UK Research and Innovation (UKRI). Innovate UK, part of UKRI, is responsible for the delivery of this call for proposals and the management of any resulting funding agreements.
Please consult the
Innovate UK IFS call for proposals announcement
for UK funding parameters.
6. Application process
This call for proposal is being hosted by Innovate UK's Innovation Funding Service (IFS).
Each project consortium
must complete and submit the joint project application form via the
UK IFS application portal
.
The UK lead project applicant must register and apply, through the UK IFS application portal.
Canadian partners must not be invited onto Innovate UK's IFS application platform. Their involvement in the project is listed as part of the answers to the questions. Please consult the Innovate UK IFS application portal for instructions on how to complete and submit the project application package.
In addition to the project consortium submitting the IFS project application form,
each project partner
seeking funding must submit all required documents to their respective national funding body and meet its due diligence process requirements. Failure to do so, at any point or for any reason, may cause the entire collaborative project application to be considered incomplete or ineligible and render the entire project consortium ineligible for funding through this call for proposals.
Application processes and evaluations will be performed independently by each national funding body in accordance with their national and institutional laws and regulations. Once each national funding body has evaluated the submitted applications, a final joint project selection will be performed.
Information on respective application processes follows below:
6.1 Canadian application process
The Canadian application process has four phases:
Registration
Expression of interest
International consortium project proposal
National funding body proposal and funding agreement
Step 1: Registration phase
Each Canadian SME applicant must register using the
Register
button at the bottom of this page. Basic information about the applicant and the organization will be required upon registration.
NRC IRAP will review registrations for this call for proposals and contact applicants if more information is required. Qualifying applicants will proceed to the next phase and be invited to submit an expression of interest form.
Step 2: Expression of interest phase
During this phase, each Canadian SME applicant seeking funding must submit an expression of interest (EOI) form outlining basic information on the applicant and the collaborative project.
While completing the EOI form, each Canadian SME applicant is encouraged to contact their NRC IRAP representative to discuss their project idea and receive guidance on preparing their submission.
It is recommended that applicants submit the EOI as early as possible. EOIs will be evaluated by the applicant's NRC IRAP representative and the NRC IRAP International Office. Qualifying applicants will be invited to submit the more detailed international consortium project proposal in collaboration with their project partners. The lead Canadian SME applicant will be provided all templates needed to submit an international consortium project proposal (ICPP).
Step 3: International consortium project proposal (ICPP) phase
During this phase, all project partners must work together to complete and submit an ICPP package.
In this call for proposals, the Canadian ICPP application package consists of:
Innovate UK IFS project application form
outlining the:
project consortium
collaborative project
expected outcomes
expected project cost and calendar
NRC IRAP Canadian SME annex
form containing additional information required to assess the Canadian SME applicants and the project consortium
Draft international consortium agreement
containing descriptions of the following:
roles and responsibilities of each consortium member
project management framework
division of intellectual property rights
confidentiality and publication agreements, and liability clauses
Canadian ICPP applications will be evaluated by an NRC IRAP evaluation team including the applicant's NRC IRAP representative and the NRC IRAP International Office. Only Canadian participants of selected project proposals will be invited to proceed to the final national funding body proposal and funding agreement stage.
Step 4: National funding body proposal and funding agreement phase
During the national funding body proposal and funding agreement phase, all eligible project partners work independently to complete funding proposals and sign legally binding funding agreements with their respective national funding body. Canadian SME applicants will work with their NRC IRAP representative to prepare an NRC IRAP funding proposal and contribution agreement.
6.2 UK application process
For information related to application stages, requirements, instructions, ICPP application packages and funding agreements, please consult the
UK IFS call for proposals announcement
.
7. Contacts
For questions, concerns, or for more information, please contact the appropriate call for proposals representative listed below:
7.1 Canadian contact
Small and medium-sized enterprises
Tamara Kononoff
NRC IRAP UK National Program Coordinator
National Research Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance Program
Tamara.Kononoff@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
7.2 UK contact
Joanne Humphries
Partnership Manager – North America
UK Research and Innovation | Innovate UK
joanne.humphries@iuk.ukri.org
8. Registration
Canadian SME participants must be registered NRC IRAP clients.  If not already an NRC IRAP client, Canadian SMEs must contact
1-877-994-4727
to determine if they might be eligible for support through the NRC IRAP.
To begin the application process, the lead Canadian applicant must register for this opportunity by clicking the
Register
button.
If there is no
Register
button visible below this line, it means the call for proposals has closed. Please contact the Contact listed or the
NRC IRAP International Office
for more information.
Page details
From:
National Research Council Canada
Date modified:
2024-11-04 00:00:00