Utility Support Stream
Currently accepting proposals from selected EOIs only
Following a comprehensive review process, a request for full project proposals was launched on February 18, 2025.  The
Smart Renewables and Electrification Pathways Program
(SREPs) notified all applicants of their proposal status and selected Expressions of Interest (EOIs) advanced to the full project proposal stage, with a submission deadline of April 2, 2025.
Objectives
The Government of Canada recognizes that Canadian utilities and system operators are working to modernize their grids, better integrate Distributed Energy Resources (DERs) such as utility storage systems and microgrids, and striving to reliably meet the demands of increased electrification at the least cost to ratepayers.
The Smart Renewables and Electrification Pathways Program’s (SREPs’) Utility Support Stream (USS) supports utilities and system operators in modernizing their systems and integrating renewables while maintaining reliability and affordability. Projects funded under the USS will
Improve the utilization and efficiency of existing assets
Increase the reliability, resiliency, and flexibility of the power system
Increase the integration and use of renewable resources and non-conventional infrastructure solutions
Generate economic and social benefits and
Help accommodate growing demand for clean and affordable electricity.
Current funding opportunities
Under this Stream, SREPs is currently accepting proposals from selected EOIs only.
Future Funding Opportunities
Further USS EOIs and requests for proposals will take place over the life of the program and will have specific eligibility criteria, which may vary for each request.
The SREPs distribution list will be notified when new funding opportunities are launched.
Eligible projects
Projects under the USS must be led by a utility, system operator, or an entity that demonstrates that the project will directly benefit a utility and/or system operator to meet their needs.
The USS will fund the:
deployment of grid modernization projects; and
utility pre-development projects.
Grid modernization deployment projects include upgrades and expansions to transmission and distribution systems, and technology upgrades which increase the future integration of clean electricity generation. USS projects will improve grid reliability, resiliency, and flexibility while improving affordability and enabling greater adoption of renewable energy. Projects can propose technologies as they see fit to meet these goals, but projects must:
Enable modernization of the electricity system;
Represent a permanent installation of equipment or a modification to existing processes, equipment, or systems for commercial operations;
Be located in Canada and provide services or capabilities for sale or use in Canada; and
Represent a proven technology – Technology Readiness Level (TRL) 8 or above
Footnote
1
.
Utilities and system operators may apply to the USS deployment and/or the pre-development stream.
In addition to deployment projects, the USS is also providing funding for utility-led pre-development projects focused on how best to expand the electricity grid or integrate more clean electricity. Pre-development activities refer to the various planning, analysis, and assessment tasks necessary prior to the deployment of grid modernization projects or solutions, including engineering design work, feasibility studies, and other activities.
Timeline
The following timeline is notional and may be subject to change.
July 2024 -September 2024
Engagement on stream requirements and design
October 10, 2024 - December 13, 2024
Accepting expressions of interest (deployment projects)
February 18, 2025 - April 2, 2025
Accepting project proposals from selected expressions of interest (deployment projects)
Ongoing
Focused engagements and design of future requests for expressions of interest and requests for proposals
Contact us
Please direct questions about this stream to the SREPs Team:
sreps-erite@nrcan-rncan.gc.ca
.
To receive USS updates by email, please send us a request with
Add me to USS Distribution List
in the subject line.
Footnotes
Footnote 1
Technologies with a TRL of less than 8 will only be considered and admissible if they are minor and are integral to the broader deployment project. For more information on technology readiness levels, please visit
Innovation, Science and Technology Development Canada’s website
.
Return to footnote
1
referrer
Date modified:
2025-03-04