Sign in
Live Updates Trump presidency
Trending ICC
Brazil plane crash
Jobs report
Winter storms
Inflation
Time magazine cover
Kendrick Lamar and Timothée Chalamet
Questions swirl over the team behind DOGE's 'Second American Revolution'
CNN INVESTIGATES
Kenny Holston/The New York Times/Pool/Reuters
While the rigor of DOGE’s hiring process remains unclear, here’s what we know about the people on Musk’s team
Trump and Musk say they’re just getting started
Privacy is the key issue for Musk, Trump and DOGE
DOJ agrees to give two-days’ notice if it releases names of FBI employees who worked Jan. 6 cases
Time magazine’s provocative cover puts Elon Musk behind Trump’s desk
1:36
Expert identifies ‘doomsday scenario’ with Trump that attorneys are worried about
1:32
FBI agent writes anonymous letter warning Americans
•
LIVE UPDATES
Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images
Trump says Nippon Steel is looking at ‘investment rather than a purchase’ of US Steel
Three NATO members still rely on Russia to manage their electricity grid. They’re about to pull the plug
As Trump pushes for ceasefire talks, Ukraine sees Kursk as a potential bargaining chip
Indian Youth Congress via X
‘Treated like criminals’: Shackling of Indians aboard 40-hour migrant flight sparks new outrage against Trump
Trump administration withdraws from gender-affirming care dispute at the Supreme Court
Watch the latest CNN Headlines
ESA/FILE
Newly discovered asteroid now has a slightly higher risk of hitting Earth
The second-largest gold storage in the world suddenly has long lines to withdraw bars
Zoe Saldaña taking ‘time to process’ ‘Emilia Pérez’ costar Karla Sofía Gascón’s comments
River suddenly turns red, sparking environmental concerns 0:32
MORE TOP STORIES
Caleb Jones/AP
Not 1. Not 2. Not 3. Not 4. 5 winter storms could deliver more snow than the last two winters combined
AOC ally reveals his plan to take on Pelosi 5:57
Americans, including Republicans, now fear higher inflation this year
Crews searching Alaska’s icy waters and shores for flight that disappeared with 10 on board
Aviation expert on what should give searchers hope for missing Alaska flight 2:12
Recognize signs of a stroke with the acronym BE FAST
Only a dozen female inmates survived this prison fire. CNN correspondent explains what happened 1:18
TARIFFS
Seth Wenig/AP
Confusion reigns and stocks sink as Trump announces more tariffs
Tariffs will hurt most stores — but not TJ Maxx
Analysis for subscribers How Trump’s tariffs could rattle economies along the US-Mexico border
‘We’ve always been good neighbors’: Canadian small business owners react to tariff news 2:26
USAID
Roberto Schmidt/AFP/Getty Images
Musk’s plan to send USAID through ‘the woodchipper’ will backfire, experts say
CNN PODCASTS
How to hack your brain’s reward system
Elon Musk’s next experiment: The U.S. Government
Do young people need smartphones?
SUPER BOWL
FOR SUBSCRIBERS
Austin Steele/CNN
Attack fallout lingers as French Quarter workers welcome Super Bowl fans
On the verge of an unprecedented career, Patrick Mahomes’ success earned him a new label: villain
This year’s Super Bowl ads are all about celebrity cameos and humor
Jalen Hurts faced enough twists to make anyone get off the football roller coaster — but he isn’t just anyone
Why this game snack might be inflation-proof 3:05
CHECK THESE OUT
0:36
‘You aren’t going to outrun us’: Officers on horseback chase down suspect
CNN EXCLUSIVE
K-pop act NewJeans unveils new identity — and a new name
LeBron James joins Michael Jordan in history books as Lakers down Warriors to continue winning run
Casu marzu: The world’s ‘most dangerous’ cheese
FOR SUBSCRIBERS
Tim and Patty Korber/George and Debbie Gilbert/Scott and Cheree Behringer
They met on vacation and became best friends. Then they recreated their favorite photo 30 years later
K9s, snipers and BearCats: How New Orleans is prepping to keep the Super Bowl safe
China is building a giant laser facility to master near-limitless clean energy, satellite images appear to show
CNN Underscored
BEST-IN-CLASS
Tobey Grumet Segal/CNN Underscored
Presidents Day sales have officially landed. These are the ones that are actually worth it
We tested the best winter gloves and found 2 that will actually keep your hands warm
36 last-minute Valentine's Day gifts that won't feel like an afterthought
The best products on sale this weekend that are truly discounted
10 fans for sleeping that will help you fall asleep faster and stay cool, according to doctors
EXPERT-BACKED GUIDES
Michelle Rae Uy/CNN Underscored
The 58 best products we tried and loved in January
Hydro Flask makes some of the only tumblers worth buying. Now you can save up to 50%
A bunch of Gap's bestselling jeans are 50% off right now
Yes, you should have an emergency car kit in your vehicle. These are the best ones
Backcountry just dropped 50% off winter jackets, gear and more
BUSINESS
Yuki Iwamura/Bloomberg/Getty Images/File
Data shows a healthy US job market. Trump disagrees — and blames Biden
Jobs report shows hiring slowdown with companies acting like ‘they’re in a recession’
Federal workers, CNN wants to hear from you
Latest in Markets
DOW 44,313.17 0.97%
S&P 500 6,025.60 0.95%
NASDAQ 19,516.29 1.39%
ENTERTAINMENT
Arturo Holmes/Getty Images
Debra Messing says she will never stop fighting against antisemitism: ‘I don’t think I’ve ever felt as proud of being a Jew’
Kendrick Lamar has a conversation with his ‘fan forever,’ Timothée Chalamet
Laverne Cox says the country is ‘worried about the wrong 1%’
Antonio Banderas knows who the real star is in his Super Bowl spot
SPACE AND SCIENCE
YouTube/SpaceX
Astronomers briefly thought Elon Musk's car was an asteroid. Here's why that points to a broader problem
Scientists make ‘rare advance’ in tackling the oldest unsolved problem in physics
‘Disgust’ among first words decoded in 2,000-year-old charred scroll
Two Grand Canyon-size valleys on the far side of the moon formed within 10 minutes, scientists say
TRAVEL
Courtesy of DS+R, rendering by Bucharest Studio
Dubai ‘Islands in the Sky’ will create high-rise pools under a giant dome
Supersonic jets are making a comeback. Here’s what that means for air passengers
How this American moved to Italy and became the country’s ‘first woman rabbi’
CDC reports gastrointestinal illness outbreak on Radiance of the Seas cruise ship
‘Am I now a walking target?’: The Canadians boycotting travel to the United States because of Trump
STYLE
Pierre David/SATISFY
Catch me if you can: Running gets fashionable
Anna Wintour takes off her iconic sunglasses for meeting with King Charles
Meet the designer redefining lace for the 21st century
In a world of naked dresses, did one take it too far?
He’s the first Black American to compose a full opera. It’s finally being staged after 138 years
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
MoMo Productions/Digital Vision/Getty Images
Why ‘cardiac clearance’ could save your life
Does my child have an anxiety disorder? Here are the signs parents should look out for
Just deal with it in the morning. Your mental health will be better then, study suggests
Parents’ phone habits increase exposure of mature content for children, new study finds
MORE POLITICS
Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
USAID expected to retain fewer than 300 employees as Trump aims to shutter humanitarian agency
White House pressures ICE to pick up pace of arrests, sources say
Judge pauses Trump’s ‘buyout’ offer to federal workers
Analysis Why the courts may be the last constraint on Trump but may not contain his power grabs
FBI gives DOJ names of those who worked Jan. 6 cases
US
Angela Weiss/AFP/Getty Images
New York temporarily shuts down live bird markets in several counties after bird flu detected in poultry
Mother and daughter killed in suspected tornado in a small East Tennessee community
California utility company says its equipment may have sparked a Los Angeles-area wildfire
Father in car was among 7 killed in Philadelphia medevac crash. His 9-year-old son is fighting for his life
WORLD
India McIntosh/GoFundMe
Two tourists died in Sri Lanka after hostel fumigated for bedbugs, police say
Sweden to tighten gun laws after school shooting
Small plane crashes into bus on road in Brazil
Hamas to release three Israeli men Saturday in latest round of exchanges under ceasefire deal
CNN PODCASTS
Shutterstock
How to hack your brain’s reward system
The ‘long road ahead’ for Republicans
Elon Musk’s next experiment: The U.S. Government
Do young people need smartphones?
What we know (and don’t) about Musk’s DC takeover
SPORTS
Bleacher Report
Expert Super Bowl LIX predictions
Tiger Woods to play in Genesis Invitational
Grading every team’s 2025 NBA trade deadline
Video: Brother surprises NFL legend with HOF news
NFL players eligible for the 2026 Hall of Fame
Video
0:36
'You aren't going to outrun us': Officers on horseback chase down suspect
0:34
Frozen iguana's day goes from bad to worse after tumbling from tree
0:46
These athletes are dragon boat racing – but not on water
0:27
25 baby pandas make first public appearance
Food and Home
Food Network
5 irresistible broccoli casserole recipes that’ll make you want to eat your veggies
Westend61/Getty Images
Is there really a difference between soup and stew?
Emily Fazio / HGTV
How to clean baking sheets
Paid Content
More from CNN
TRUMP RETURNS TO OFFICE
Photo illustration by Amy O'Kruk/CNN/Getty Images
Trump has issued dozens of executive actions. Read what they are
Tracking Trump’s picks for his Cabinet and administration
They lived through Musk’s Twitter takeover. Now, they have advice for federal employees
FOOTBALL
Mark J. Rebilas/USA Today Sports/Reuters
Josh Allen wins his first NFL MVP award, beating out Lamar Jackson in one of the most intense races ever
Google’s AI-generated Super Bowl cheese ad has some holes
A historic three-peat is on the line for Andy Reid and the Chiefs. Standing in the way is his former team
Photos
GALLERY
Sonja Flemming/CBS
The best photos from the 2025 Grammy Awards
GALLERY
Petty Officer 1st Class Brandon Giles/US Coast Guard/Getty Images
In pictures: Passenger plane collides with Army helicopter
GALLERY
John Shearer/Getty Images
The week in 40 photos
Gary He/McAtlas
A photographer visited McDonald’s in more than 55 countries. Here’s what he found
Paid Partner Content
In case you missed it
Kike Calvo/Redux
Trump says China ‘operates’ the Panama Canal. How deep are Beijing’s ties to the key waterway?
What is the ICC and why has Trump sanctioned it?
EPA places more than 160 environmental justice employees on paid leave
Prince documentary will no longer be released by Netflix
Lindsey Vonn’s Alpine World Ski Championships return ends early
Trans youth care, Head Start programs affected by Trump’s early actions
LG is sending free stickers to 500,000 customers who bought its recalled stove that caused 28 house fires
It was the world’s fastest ocean liner. Now it’s headed to the bottom of the Atlantic
100,000 eggs were stolen from a trailer in Pennsylvania, police say
Democrats mobilize to take on Musk
CIA sends White House unclassified email with names of new hires
Sign in
Live TV
Listen
Watch
US
World
Politics
Business
Markets
Health
Entertainment
Tech
Style
Travel
Sports
Science
Climate
Weather
Ukraine-Russia War
Israel-Hamas War
Watch
Listen
CNN Underscored
Games
About CNN
FOLLOW CNN
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Settings
Ad Choices
Accessibility & CC
About
Subscribe
Newsletters
Transcripts
Help Center
© 2025 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.