Regional Homebuilding Innovation Initiative (RHII)
On this page
Who can apply for RHII funding?
Eligible activities
How to apply
Building tomorrow's housing solutions, today
Through the Regional Homebuilding Innovation Initiative, the Government of Canada is investing $50 million over two years, starting in 2024-2025, to support local innovative housing solutions across the country.
The Regional Homebuilding Innovation Initiative provides support to pursue new approaches for building houses, including designing and upscaling modular homes, the use of 3D printing, mass timber construction, panelized construction, as well as implementing net-zero and climate resilient homebuilding practices.
Delivered by Canada's
Regional Development Agencies (RDAs)
, including Canadian Northern Economic Development Agency (CanNor), this initiative is helping businesses and organizations enhance the local housing supply chain and advance innovation in the residential construction sector. By investing in projects that will change the way houses are built across the country, more Canadians will have a place to call home, faster.
The Regional Homebuilding Innovation Initiative is an important part of
Canada's Housing Plan
and is supporting the residential homebuilding supply chain and change the way industry builds homes in the North through investments that will:
advance innovative homebuilding solutions, and
boost manufacturing efficiency within the homebuilding sector.
Who can apply for RHII funding?
Businesses such as partnerships, social enterprises, incorporated companies, corporations, co-operatives, and Indigenous-owned businesses.
Not-for-profit organizations such as sectoral/industry associations, post-secondary educational institutions, etc.
Indigenous-led not-for-profits and organizations.
Municipal, provincial, or territorial governments, including crown corporations.
Eligible activities
Eligible activities include those currently eligible under REGI that advance innovative housing solutions and boost manufacturing efficiency and output, including:
Investing in manufacturing and construction technology to increase productivity and output in the housing sector, such as modular and mass timber construction.
Assisting firms in adapting, adopting and scaling innovative construction methods such as prefabrication/modular construction, net-zero housing, 3D printing, and NetZero and climate resilient housing practices.
Investing in innovation, demonstration, and commercialization that accelerates the construction of homes.
Scaling existing manufacturers that produce panelized construction and inputs such as prefabricated drywall, trusses, cement, windows, and doors, etc.
Developing industry tools that accelerate construction innovation through the improvement and adoption of off-site construction technologies and practices.
How to apply
If you have a project idea and would like to submit an application for funding under RHII, please fill out the
Application Form
.
Upon receipt, projects submitted are reviewed by regional economic development officers, and applicants may be invited to submit a full application. At that time, a generic application and any program specific applications may be provided.
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2024-11-20