Eurogia Cluster’s 28th call for proposals – clean technologies
1. Sector of focus
2. Application deadlines
3. How to apply
4. Related tools and events
5. Project funding
6. Canadian funding eligibility
7. Contacts
Eurogia
, the Eureka cluster focused on clean technologies, has launched its 28th call for collaborative research and development project proposals.
Eurogia is a flexible, industry-driven Eureka Cluster program whose aim is to promote innovative, collaborative, international, and close-to-market R&D projects in clean technologies.
1. Sector of focus
Clean technologies in, but not limited to, the following areas:
Hydrogen and renewable energy technology for generation and storage;
ICT technologies tracking CO2, managing energy use and storage;
Energy efficient housing, digital twins, smart cities, IoT; and
AI and Big data technologies used for energy use optimization.
2. Application deadlines
Submission of Project Outline or Full Project Proposal:
April 24, 2025 5:00 pm CET
3. How to apply
To apply, applicants must follow instructions on
Eurogia's submission portal
. Please inform your IRAP Industrial Technology Advisor if you plan to submit a Project Outline or a Full Project Proposal.
4. Related tools and events
Eurogia brokerage tool
– for sharing project ideas and project consortium building.
5. Project funding
Eligible project participants in collaborative projects selected through this call for proposals may receive funding from their respective national funding body. Funds will be provided in accordance with the applicable laws, regulations, rules and procedures established by the relevant national funding body, country, jurisdiction and/or program.
Each project participant should contact their national funding agency early in the process and follow their advice regarding national funding applications in parallel to the proposal submission.
Participants ineligible to national funding for such projects (e.g., in Canada: large firms, non-profits, universities, research centers, etc.) are welcome to participate on a self-funded basis or as sub-contractors to funded participants, according to each country's funding regulations.
6. Canadian funding eligibility
Canadian SMEs
In Canada, this call for proposals is offered through the National Research Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP). NRC IRAP funding is only available for eligible Canadian small or medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Project participants who are not eligible for funding are welcome to participate on a self-funded basis.
To be eligible for funding a Canadian SME applicant must:
be an incorporated, profit-oriented small or medium-sized enterprise (SME) in Canada
have 500 or fewer full-time equivalent employees
pursue growth and profit by developing and commercializing innovative, technology-driven new or improved products, services or processes in Canada
have a differentiated and protectable technology that could become competitive in global markets
have sufficient working capital and resources to undertake a multi-year R&D collaboration and commercialize the results
be committed to significant growth through international market expansion
Preference may be given to Canadian SME applicants who:
have a minimum of 15 full-time equivalent employees
have commercialized one or more products domestically or internationally
have greater than $500,000 CAD in annual revenue
Note:
Canadian SME applicants must be eligible for funding as NRC IRAP clients before they can be considered for funding through this call for proposals. For more information on NRC IRAP eligibility and becoming an NRC IRAP client, please contact NRC IRAP at 1-877-994-4727.
Note:
Canadian SME applicants may apply to more than 1 NRC IRAP funded call for proposals simultaneously. However, NRC IRAP may limit the number of funded projects per applicant. Canadian SME applicants who are applying to more than 1 opportunity or who have ongoing NRC IRAP projects should speak to their NRC IRAP representative for more information.
Other Canadian organizations
Other types of Canadian organizations may participate in Eurogia projects but need to secure funding from alternative sources or self-fund their project participation.
7. Contact
To learn more about Eureka's Eurogia cluster and this call for proposals, please visit the
Eurogia Website
or contact Peter Bandas at
Peter.Bandas@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
.
Page details
From:
National Research Council Canada
Date modified:
2025-01-20 00:00:00