Building Retrofits Initiative
Our Building Retrofits Initiative (BRI) provides attractive financing to reduce investment barriers and decarbonize buildings. Our team of experts works with the public and private sector as well as other market participants to modernize and improve the energy efficiency of existing buildings.
Eligibility
Public sector
All levels of government, Indigenous communities, schools, hospitals, and universities
All types of buildings and infrastructure, including administrative offices, courthouses, correctional facilities, hospitals, campus buildings, parking facilities, transit facilities, streets and highways lighting, etc.
Private sector
Privately owned commercial, industrial, and multi-unit residential buildings
Eligible assets including real estate investment trusts (REITs), investment trusts, retail chains, corporations, etc.
CAPREIT
We’re thrilled to have been able to partner with the CIB and participate in their Building Retrofits Initiative, an important program in place to benefit both residents as well as the environment through projects that wouldn’t have been financially feasible otherwise. This loan will enable us to proceed with retrofitting approximately one-third of our existing Canadian apartment portfolio, which will significantly reduce its carbon emissions annually. Through the CIB, we’re pleased to be contributing to the achievement of Canada’s climate-change commitments while also making meaningful progress on our own, and we’re excited to continue this vital energy conservation work. CAPREIT remains proud to be a provider of affordable housing for Canadians.
Mark Kenney, President and Chief Executive Officer
Enbridge Gas Inc.
We are excited to announce our collaboration with the Canada Infrastructure Bank (CIB) and Blackstone Energy Services to launch an initiative that offers a practical and affordable solution to large energy users such as universities, hospitals, municipalities, and multi-unit residential properties. This initiative aims to implement deep energy building retrofits that are expected to result in a minimum of 30% emissions reduction. Our collective efforts towards decarbonization are designed to contribute to a greener future for generations to come.
Mark Irvine, Vice President, Unregulated Business
BRI aggregator partner contact list:
Email us
Download the BRI Overview
Download the partner contact list
Related Partnerships
All Partnerships