Targeted Manufacturing Initiative for Northern Ontario – Operational Assessments
FedNor is committed to supporting Northern Ontario's economy by encouraging businesses to become more innovative, productive and competitive. Through its Regional Economic Growth through Innovation program, FedNor can help existing Northern Ontario manufacturers to better plan, prioritize and implement changes that will result in efficiencies, improved quality, productivity, profitability and overall competitiveness. The result is a stronger and more competitive economy in Northern Ontario.
On this page
Expected Results
Eligible Applicants
Eligible Activities
Funding Conditions
Other Considerations
How to Apply
Expected Results
Results generated by FedNor’s investments in manufacturing will include:
Enhanced manufacturing capability;
Efficient production facilities;
Modernized and competitive manufacturing sector in Northern Ontario; and
Increased export sales and profitability.
Eligible Applicants
Eligible applicants are established manufacturers located in
Northern Ontario
. For further clarity, established manufacturers means firms currently operating, whose primary line of business is the manufacture of a commercial product and that are planning for growth.
Eligible Activities
Operational assessments, which are conducted by qualified experts who provide in-depth examinations involving operational efficiencies.
Assessments can focus on areas such as:
Productivity;
Process flow;
Quality, including ISO Certification;
Waste reduction;
Environmental impact (green certifications);
Energy efficiency (production level);
Information systems;
Lean manufacturing, Kaizen, Six Sigma, 5S principles;
Human resources / organizational analysis;
Management systems;
Market analysis (aiming to expand existing or into new markets); and Industrial Technological Benefits (ITB) readiness.
Funding Conditions
FedNor could contribute up to 50 percent of eligible project costs to a maximum of $15,000 per assessment.
Contributions will be non-repayable.
Eligible costs must be for arm's-length services.
If applicants incur costs to implement their projects prior to approval of funding, these costs will not be considered eligible for reimbursement unless written consent is provided by FedNor.
Other Considerations
The following is required as part of all funding applications:
Detail regarding the operational improvement (s) to be addressed, a description of how the project was identified, and how it will improve the firm's operations;
Evidence of capacity to implement the project, including financial statements for the past three years. Where the last year-end is more than six months past, interim financial statements must be provided.
How to Apply
Please call
1-877-333-6673
to discuss your proposal with a
FedNor Officer
in your area or begin your
application process
.
FedNor is committed to providing effective, efficient and client-focused programs and services. Visit our
service commitment
to find out more.
Report a problem
Date modified:
2024-08-24