Lands and Economic Development Services Program: Project-based funding
Find out about project-based funding for lands and economic development in First Nations and Inuit communities.
Funding
Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada (INAC) provides
operational (core) funding
and project-based (targeted) funding under the Lands and Economic Development Services Program (LEDSP). Eligibility and program  requirements differ according to the funding type.
Choose a topic:
About the program
Who can apply?
Deadline
Related link
About the program
Project-based funding is available for:
economic development, land management and environment management activities, including (but not limited to)
capacity development
planning
land designations that support economic development
development of proposals to raise financial resources
program management services pertaining to community economic development
Eligible recipients can apply for
LEDSP
-project based funding and use it as a supplement to operational funding.
Find out more about the
Lands and Economic Development Services Program
.
Who can apply?
First Nations and Inuit communities and their governments
tribal councils
organizations and associations controlled by First Nations and Inuit communities, except for those with charitable or religious purposes
non-Indigenous organizations and associations, except for those with charitable or religious purposes
Deadline
Call for proposals are usually issued several times each year through your regional offices.
Contact your
regional office
to find out more.
Related link
Lands and Economic Development Services Program: Guidelines
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes
No
If not, tell us why:
What was wrong?
I can't
find
the information
The information is hard to
understand
There was an error or something
didn't work
Other reason
Please provide more details
You will not receive a reply. Don't include personal information (telephone, email, SIN, financial, medical, or work details).
Maximum 300 characters
Submit
Thank you for your feedback
Date modified:
2023-07-28