Canada – Austria 2025 collaborative industrial research and development call for proposals
1. Introduction
2. Application deadlines
3. Sectors of focus
4. Eligibility requirements
5. Funding
6. Application process
7. Contacts
8. Registration
1. Introduction
Working together, the governments of Canada and Austria aim to foster and support collaborative industrial research and development (R&D) projects with a high potential for commercialization. This call for proposals is open to organizations from Canada and Austria who wish to form project consortia to perform collaborative projects focused on developing innovative products, processes, or technology‑based services.
2. Application deadlines
Canadian registration deadline:
April 1, 2025
Canadian expression of interest deadline:
April 15, 2025
International consortium project proposal deadline:
May 30, 2025
Canada-Austria project selection announcement:
August-September 2025
Project start date (estimated):
September-October 2025
3. Sectors of focus
Although this call invites proposals related to any civilian (non-military) technological or market area, special attention is being given to the following sector:
Artificial intelligence
For more details, please consult the relevant call for proposals in the
Eureka funding opportunities webpage
.
4. Eligibility requirements
Applicants must form a project consortium and develop a collaborative research and development (R&D) project that meets the following criteria:
4.1 Canadian applicant
To be considered for funding, the Canadian applicant must:
be an incorporated, profit‑oriented small or medium‑sized business in Canada
have 500 or fewer full‑time equivalent employees
pursue growth and profit by developing and commercializing innovative, technology‑driven new or improved products, services or processes in Canada
have a differentiated and protectable technology with commercial potential in global markets
have sufficient working capital (e.g. revenue, investment etc.) and resources to undertake a multi-year R&D collaboration and commercialize the results
be committed to significant growth through international market expansion
Preference may be given to SME applicants who:
have a minimum of 15 full‑time equivalent employees
have commercialized 1 or more products domestically or internationally
have greater than $500,000 CAD in annual revenue
4.2 Consortium
The project consortium must include at least:
1 eligible Canadian SME
Footnote
*
, and
1 eligible Austrian participant
The parties listed above must be unrelated parties (i.e. no direct, indirect, beneficial or constructive ownership interest between these parties)
The project partners that form the consortium must agree on a plan addressing intellectual property rights and intent to commercialize
Footnote *
In addition to the Canadian SME, other Canadian organizations (research institutes, universities, research and technology organizations, large enterprises and other companies) may participate on a self‑funded basis or as subcontractors.
Return to footnote
*
referrer
4.3 Project
The project must focus on co‑development, adaptation, and/or validation of an innovative product, process, or technology‑based service that has:
substantial commercial potential and outcomes that can be realized within 2 to 3 years after project completion
a civilian (non‑military) purpose
The project must demonstrate:
a complementary technological contribution from each partner
an obvious advantage and added value resulting from the cooperation between the participants
a balanced contribution between project partners and countries (i.e. no more than
70%
of the effort contributed by any one partner or country)
4.4 Austrian eligibility requirements
Austrian applicants must meet the criteria outlined on the Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG)
call for proposals website
.
5. Funding
Eligible project participants in collaborative projects selected through this call for proposals may receive funding from their respective national funding body. Funds will be provided in accordance with the applicable laws, regulations, rules and procedures established by the relevant national funding body, country, jurisdiction and/or program.
Project participants not eligible for funding from the National Research Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP) or FFG (e.g. universities, research institutes, etc., and participants from other countries) are welcome to participate on a self-funded basis or as sub-contractors to funded participants, according to each country's funding regulations. Self-funded participants will be required to provide a "self-funding declaration" for which a template will be provided.
Note:
One country and/or project partner cannot represent more than 70% of the total project budget.
Additional country‑specific funding parameters are outlined below:
5.1 Canadian funding
In Canada, this call for proposals is offered through the National Research Council of Canada Industrial Research Assistance Program (NRC IRAP). NRC IRAP is responsible for delivering this call for proposals and for managing any resulting funding agreements.
Eligible Canadian SMEs may receive up to 50% reimbursement of the total project costs up to a maximum total funding amount of $500,000 CAD over 12 to 36 months.
Note:
Canadian SME applicants must be eligible for funding as NRC IRAP clients before they can be considered for funding through this call for proposals. For more information on NRC IRAP eligibility and becoming an NRC IRAP client, please contact NRC IRAP at
1-877-994-4727
.
Note:
Canadian SME applicants may apply to more than 1 NRC IRAP call for proposals simultaneously. However, NRC IRAP may limit the number of funded projects per applicant. Canadian SME applicants who are applying to more than 1 opportunity or who have ongoing NRC IRAP projects should speak to their NRC IRAP representative for more information.
5.2 Austrian funding
In Austria, this call for proposals is offered through the Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG). FFG is responsible for the delivery of this call for proposals and the management of any resulting funding agreements.
Financial support may be provided to eligible Austrian companies in support of industrial research and/or technological development activities. Austrian applicants should consult the funding parameters outlined on the
FFG call for proposals website
.
6. Application process
This call for proposals is being hosted by the Eureka Network program. Each
project consortium
must complete and submit a Eureka project online application form. Please consult the Eureka
application portal
for instructions on how to complete and submit the Eureka project application form.
In addition to the project consortium submitting a Eureka project application form, each
project partner
seeking funding must submit all required documents to, and meet the due diligence process of, their respective national funding body. Failure, at any point or for any reason, to do so may cause the entire collaborative project application to be considered incomplete or ineligible and render the entire project consortium ineligible for funding through this call for proposals.
Application processes and evaluations will be performed independently by each national funding body in accordance with their national and institutional laws and regulations. Once each national funding body has evaluated the submitted applications, a final joint project selection will be performed.
Information on respective application processes follows below:
6.1 Canadian application process
The Canadian application process has 4 phases:
Registration
Expression of interest
International consortium project proposal
National funding body proposal and funding agreement
Step 1: Registration phase
Canadian applicants must register using the
Register
button at the bottom of this page. Basic information about the applicant and the organization will be required upon registration.
NRC IRAP will review registrations for this call for proposals and contact applicants if more information is required. Qualifying applicants will proceed to the next phase and be invited to submit an expression of interest form.
Step 2: Expression of interest phase
During this phase, each Canadian applicant seeking funding must submit an expression of interest (EOI) form outlining basic information on the applicant and the collaborative project.
While completing the EOI form, each Canadian applicant is encouraged to contact their NRC IRAP representative to discuss their project idea and receive guidance on preparing their submission.
It is recommended that applicants submit the EOI as early as possible. EOIs will be evaluated by the applicant's NRC IRAP representative and the NRC IRAP International Office. Qualifying applicants will be invited to submit the more detailed international consortium project proposal in collaboration with their project partners.
Step 3: International consortium project proposal phase
During the international consortium project proposal (ICPP) phase, all project partners work together to complete and submit an international consortium project proposal (ICPP) package.
In this call for proposals, the Canadian ICPP application package consists of:
a
Eureka project application form
submitted on the
Eureka application portal
, using the Austria-Canada call choice, outlining the:
project consortium
collaborative project
expected outcomes
expected project costs and calendar
an
NRC IRAP Canadian SME Annex form
containing additional information required for the NRC IRAP assessment of the project including:
information about the Canadian SME
information about makeup of the project consortium
information related to the structure of the project
a
draft international consortium agreement
containing descriptions of the following:
roles and responsibilities of each consortium member
project management framework
division of intellectual property rights
confidentiality and publication agreements, and liability clauses
Canadian ICPP applications will be evaluated by an NRC IRAP evaluation team including the applicant's NRC IRAP representative and the NRC IRAP International Office. Only Canadian participants of selected project proposals will be invited to proceed to the final national funding body proposal and funding agreement stage.
Step 4: National funding body proposal and funding agreement phase
During the national funding body proposal and funding agreement phase, all eligible project partners work independently to complete funding proposals and sign legally binding funding agreements with their respective national funding body. Canadian applicants will work with their NRC IRAP representative to prepare an NRC IRAP funding proposal and contribution agreement.
6.2 Austrian application process
For information related to application stages, expression of interest, requirements, instructions, ICPP application packages, and national funding body proposals and funding agreements, please consult the
FFG call for proposals website
.
7. Contacts
For questions, concerns, or for more information, please contact the appropriate call for proposals representative listed below.
7.1 Canada
Eric Holdrinet
NRC IRAP
Eureka National Project Coordinator – Canada
Eric.Holdrinet@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
7.2 Austria
Dr. Michael Walch
Eureka National Project Coordinator - Austria
Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG)
michael.walch@ffg.at
8. Registration
Canadian SME participants must be registered NRC IRAP clients. If not already an NRC IRAP client, Canadian SMEs must contact
1-877-994-4727
to determine if they might be eligible for support through NRC IRAP.
To begin the application process, Canadian applicants must register for this opportunity by clicking the
Register
button.
If there is no
Register
button visible below this line, it means the call for proposals has closed.
Please contact the Contact listed or the NRC IRAP International Office at
IRAP.International.PARI@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca
for more information.
Page details
From:
National Research Council Canada
Date modified:
2024-12-02 00:00:00